
==Vulnerability Analysis==
Vulnerability Analysis is used to identify and evaluate the security risks posed by identified vulnerabilities.  Vulnerability analysis work is divided into two areas: Identification and validation.  Vulnerability discovery effort is the key component of the Identification phase.  Validation is reducing the number of identified vulnerabilities to only those that are actually valid.

===Vulnerability Testing===
Vulnerability Testing is divided to include both an Active and Passive method.

====Active====

====Automated Tools====
An automated scanner is designed to assess networks, hosts, and associated applications.  There are a number of types of automated scanners available today, some focus on particular targets or types of targets.  The core purpose of an automated scanner is the enumeration of vulnerabilities present on networks, hosts, and associated applications.

=====Network/General Vulnerability Scanners=====
=====Open Vulnerability Assessment System (OpenVAS)  (Linux)=====
The Open Vulnerability Assessment System (OpenVAS) is a framework of several services and tools offering a comprehensive and powerful vulnerability scanning and vulnerability management solution.  OpenVAS is a fork of Nessus that allows free development of a non-proprietary tool.

Like the earlier versions of Nessus, OpenVAS consists of a Client and Scanner.  To start the Scanner, simply run openvassd from the command line.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_51.png|Screenshot Here]]

There are two ways in which you can run the OpenVAS Client, either the GUI or the command line interface.  Using the menu you would select on OpenVAS Client.  In the console it is "OpenVAS-Client."

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_52.png|Screenshot Here]]

Once the client starts up you will need to connect it to the scanner.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_53.png|Screenshot Here]]

Submit in the supplied user credentials.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_54.png|Screenshot Here]]

If you created a certificate then you supply it as well.  You will then be presented with a certificate to accept.  Click yes to continue.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_55.png|Screenshot Here]]
<br>
Once you accept the certificate, OpenVAS will initialize and indicate the number of Found and Enabled plugins.  This could take a while depending upon the number of plugins that need to be downloaded.  Also, you need to ensure that you've added the appropriate /etc/hosts entries for both the IPv4 and IPv6 address.  For example:

<pre>127.0.0.1       localhost

127.0.0.1       pentest

<nowiki>#</nowiki> The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts

<nowiki>:</nowiki>:1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback pentest localhost</pre>

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_56.png|Screenshot Here]]

Before scanning anything we need to configure the OpenVAS Scan Options.  The General section covers all the general scan options.  See Appendix A for the specific settings.  To start a new scan, you use the Scan Assistant.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_57.png|Screenshot Here]]

Once the Scan Assistant launches, you'll have to provide some information to create the task.  First, you'll need to give the name of the task.  This is usually the name of the client or some other name that describes what you're scanning.  Once you've completed this, click Forward to continue.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_58.png|Screenshot Here]]

A scope can be seen as a sub-task.  It defines a certain scan and the title should indicate the scope of the scan such as "Internet Facing Systems" or "Aggressive Scan of Client X".  Once you've completed this, click Forward to continue.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_59.png|Screenshot Here]]

At this point you'll need to provide the target information.  This can be in the form of a hostname, FQDN, IP Address, Network Range, CIDR.  The only requirement is that they have to be separated with commas.  Once you've completed this, click Forward to continue.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_60.png|Screenshot Here]]

<br>Finally, we're at the point where we can launch our scan.  Click Execute to start the scan.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_61.png|Screenshot Here]]

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_62.png|Screenshot Here]]

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_63.png|Screenshot Here]]

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_64.png|Screenshot Here]]

=====Nessus (Windows/Linux)=====
Nessus is a commercial automated scanning program.  It is designed to detect potential vulnerabilities on the networks, hosts, and associated application being assessed.  Nessus allows for custom policies to be utilized for specific evaluations.  For non-Web applications, the policy that should be utilized is the "Only Safe Checks" policy (See Appendix A).  For Web applications, the policy that should be utilized is the "Only Safe Checks (Web)" policy (See Appendix B).

To access Nessus simply enter in the correct URL into a web browser.  If you are accessing from the Pentest Lab use the following URL: https://<nowiki><</nowiki>IP ADDRESS<nowiki>></nowiki>:8834.

<br><br>'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_65.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

The credentials to access this will need to be established prior to attempting to access.  Once you have the logged in, you will be presented with the Reports Interface.  Prior to running any Nessus scan, the product should be validated to ensure that it has been properly updated with the latest signatures.  This process is normally run as part of a scheduled task, but you can run click on "About" which will present the Windows which contains data about the installation.<br>

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_66.png|Screenshot Here]]

The Client Build ID is quick way to ensure that Nessus has been updated.  The format is as simple as YYYYMMDD.  201110223 would mean that the scanner was last updated on February, 23, 2011.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_67.png|Screenshot Here]]

If the scanner has been updated within the last week, you can safely conduct scans.  If this date is further out than one week, you should immediately report this and avoid using the scanner until Nessus has been updated.

Within Nessus, there are four main tabs available: Reports, Scans, Policies, and Users.  <br>
'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_68.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

To initiate a scan utilize the Scan tab.  This will present you with several additional options such as Add, Edit, Browse, Launch, Pause, Stop, and Delete.<br><br>
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_69.png|Screenshot Here]]

You will create a new scan by clicking on the "Scans" option on the menu bar at the top and then click on the "<nowiki>+</nowiki> Add" button on the right.  The "Add Scan" screen will be displayed as follows:<br>
'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_70.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

There are five fields to enter before starting a scan.  The name field is set to the name that will be displayed to identify the scan.  The type field allows you to choose between "Run Now" and "Template."  "Run Now" executes the scan immediately after submitting.  "Template" saves the scan as a template for repeated scans.  The policy field is where the scan policy is selected.  The final two fields are both related to the scan targets.  You can either enter in the hosts (one per line) or browse for a text file containing all the target hosts.

Once all these fields have been properly populated click "Launch Scan" to initiate the scan process.

<u>''Note:''</u>  Automated tools can sometimes be too aggressive by default and need to be scaled back if the customer is affected.

A validation scan should be conducted weekly against <nowiki><</nowiki>IP ADDRESS<nowiki>></nowiki> using the "Validation Scan" policy (See Appendix C) to ensure that Nessus is performing scans in properly.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_71.png|Screenshot Here]]
<br>
If you conduct a "Validation Scan" and do not receive similar results, then you should immediately report this and void using the scanner.

Once the scan has completed running, it will be visible in the Reports tab.  To open the scan reports simply double-click on the appropriate completed scan file.  This will provide us with some information about the scan as well as the results.<br>
'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_72.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

We need to save this report for us to analyze.  To do this, click on the "Download Report."  This will present a new window that allows for the format to be specified.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_73.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

The default format is ".nessus", however it is necessary to download the Nessus results in HTML format.  This allows you to quickly review the vulnerabilities.

=====NeXpose=====
Nessus is a commercial automated scanning product that provides vulnerability management, policy compliance and remediation management.  It is designed to detect vulnerabilities as well as policy compliance on the networks, hosts, and associated web applications.

To access NeXpose simply enter in the correct URL into a web browser.  If you are accessing from the Pentest Lab use the following URL: https://<nowiki><</nowiki>IP ADDRESS<nowiki>></nowiki>:3780/login.html.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_74.png|Screenshot Here]]

The credentials to access this will need to be established prior to attempting to access.  Once you have the logged in, you will be presented with the dashboard Interface.  <br>

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_75.png|Screenshot Here]]
<br>
Prior to running any NeXpose scan, the product should be validated to ensure that it has been properly updated with the latest signatures.  This process is normally run as part of a scheduled task, but you can quickly validate that it the scanner is up to date by simply viewing the 'News' which will give you a log file of all the updates to the scan engine as well as any updated checks.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_76.png|Screenshot Here]]
<br>
If the scanner has been updated within the last week, you can safely conduct scans.  If this date is further out than one week, you should immediately report this and void using the scanner until NeXpose has been updated.

Within NeXpose, there are six main tabs available: Home, Assets, Tickets, Reports, Vulnerabilities, and Administration.  <br>
'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_77.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

To initiate a scan you will have to setup a 'New Site'.  To perform this click on the 'New Site' button at the bottom of the Home Page or click on the Assets tab. <br>

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_78.png|Screenshot Here]]

This will present you with the 'Site Configuration - General' page which contains several inputs such as Site name, Site importance, and Site Description.<br><br>
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_79.png|Screenshot Here]]

Type a name for the target site.  Then add a brief description for the site, and select a level of importance from the dropdown list.  The importance level corresponds to a risk factor that NeXpose uses to calculate a risk index for each site.  The 'Very Low' setting reduces a risk index to 1/3 of its initial value.  The 'Low' setting reduces the risk index to 2/3 of its initial value.  'High' and 'Very High' settings increase the risk index to 2x and 3x times its initial value, respectively.  A 'Normal' setting does not change the risk index.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_80.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

Go to the ''Devices ''page to list assets for your new site.  IP addresses and/or hostnames can be manually entered in the text box labeled ''Dev''i''ces to scan''.  It is also possible to import a comma separated file that lists IP address and/or the host names of targets you want to scan.  You do have to ensure that each address/hostname in the file appears on its own line.

To import a target list file, click the Browse''' '''button in the '''Included Device's' ''area, and select the appropriate file.

If you need to exclude targets from a scan, the process is the sample however; it is performed under the area labeled '''Devices to Exclude'.''

Once the targets have been added, a scan template will need to be selected from the '''Scan Setup' ''page.  To select a scan template simply browse the available templates.  The scan engine drop down allows you to choose between the local scan engine and the Rapid 7 hosted scan engine.

<br>

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_81.png|Screenshot Here]]
<br>
There are many templates available, however be aware that if you modify a template, all sites that use that scan template will use these modified settings.  So ensure that modify an existing template with caution.

The default scan templates Denial of Service, Discovery scan, Discovery scan (aggressive), Exhaustive, Full audit, Internal DMZ audit, Linux RPMs, Microsoft hotfix, Payment Card Industry (PCI) audit, Penetration test, Safe network audit, Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) compliance, SCADA audit, and Web audit.  Specific settings for these templates are included in Appendix D

Finally, if you wish to schedule a scan to run automatically, click the check box labeled 'Enable schedule'.  The console displays options for a start date and time, maximum scan duration in minutes, and frequency of repetition.  If the scheduled scan runs and exceeds the maximum specified duration, it will pause for an interval that you specify in the option labeled 'Repeat every'.  Select an option for what you want the scan to do after the pause interval.

The newly scheduled scan will appear in the 'Next Scan' column of the 'Site Summary' pane of the page for the site that you are creating.  All scheduled scans appear on the 'Calendar' page, which you can view by clicking the 'Monthly calendar' link on the 'Administration' page.

You can set up alerts to inform you when a scan starts, stops, fails, or matches a specific criterion.

From the '''Alerting; ''page and click the ''''New Alert' '''button.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_82.png|Screenshot Here]]

The console displays a '''New Alert' ''dialog box.  Click the ''''Enable alert' '''check box to ensure that NeXpose generates this type of alert.  You can click the box again at any time to disable the alert if you prefer not to receive that alert temporarily without having to delete it.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_83.png|Screenshot Here]]

Type a name for the alert and a value in the 'Send at most' field if you wish to limit the number of this type of alert that you receive during the scan.  Select the check boxes for types of events (Started, Stopped, Failed, Paused, and Resumed) that you wish to generate alerts for.  Select the Confirmed, Unconfirmed, and/or Potential check boxes to receive only those alerts.  Select a notification method from the dropdown box.  NeXpose can send alerts via SMTP e-mail, SNMP message, or Syslog message.  Select e-mail method and enter the addresses of your intended recipients.  Click the Limit alert text check box to send the alert without a description of the alert or its solution.  Click the Save button.  The new alert appears on the 'Alerting' page.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_84.png|Screenshot Here]]

Establishing logon credentials enables deeper checks across a wider range of vulnerabilities, such as policy violations, adware, or spyware.  Additionally, credentialed scans result in more accurate results.  On the 'Credentials' page click 'New Login' display the 'New Login' box.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_85.png|Screenshot Here]]

Select the desired type of credentials from the dropdown list labeled 'Login type'.  This selection determines the other fields that appear in the form.  In the appropriate field enter the appropriate user name and/or password.  The 'Restrict to Device' and 'Restrict to Port' fields allows for testing credentials to ensure that the work on a given site.  After filling those fields, click on the 'Test login' button to make sure that the credentials work.  Specifying a port in the Restrict to Port field allows you to limit your range of scanned ports in certain situations.  Click the 'Save' button.  The new credentials appear on the 'Credentials' page.

Once the scan has completed, you can view the results in several manners.  It is possible to view the assets by sites, view assets by groups, view assets by operating systems, view assets by services, view assets by software, and view all assets.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_86.png|Screenshot Here]]

<br>By selecting the appropriate assets view you can select the results that you wish to view.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_87.png|Screenshot Here]]

To create a report, click on the 'Create Site Report' button.  This will take you to the 'New Report' 'Configuration' page.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_88.png|Screenshot Here]]

Report configuration entails selecting a report template, assets to report on, and distribution options.  You may schedule automatic reports for generation and distribution after scans or on a fixed calendar timetable; or you may run reports manually.  After you go through all the following configuration steps and click 'Save', NeXpose will immediately start generating a report.

=====eEYE Retina=====
eEye Retina Vulnerability Assessment Scanner is a vulnerability scanner created by eEye Digital Security that is used to correlate and validate findings from Nmap and Nessus.

At first glance, the interface looks to be much more complicated than Nessus.  It is however, extremely simple once you've explored it.  The initial screen that is presented is the Discovery Tasks page.  This is utilized to perform a discovery scan to determine what hosts are alive.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_89.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

To perform a Discovery Scan, click Targets from the Actions section and the "Select Targets" option will appear.  At this point you can either enter in a single IP address or hostname that you assess.  The other options available are to scan by IP Range, CIDR, Named Host, and Address Groups.

Clicking on the Options Actions section presents us with additional options related to the Discovery scan.  These options include ICMP Discovery, TCP Discovery on Ports (enter in a comma separated list of port numbers, UPD Discovery, Perform OS Detection, Get Reverse DNS, Get NetBIOS Name, and  Get MAC Address.  Select the appropriate options for the scan desired.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_90.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

To run the Discovery scan immediately click "Discover."  To run the Discovery scan at a later point in time or on a regular schedule, click "Schedule."  Retina displays your results in the Results table as it scans the selected IP(s).  In order to get the results in a format that we can use, we need to select the scan results and click "Generate" to export the results in XML format.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_91.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

While Discovery Scans may be useful, the majority of our tasks will take place in the Audit Interface.  This is very similar to the Discovery Scan interface; however it does have a few more options.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_92.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

The Targets section is similar though there is an additional section that allows us to specify the Output Type, Name, and Job Name.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_93.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

This section is important to complete, as this is how the scan results will be saved.  If you do not change this information then you could potentially overwrite someone else's scan results.  By default, these are saved to the following directory:<br><br>

<pre>C:\Program Files\eEye Digital Security\Retina 5\Scans</pre>

This is important to note, as you will need to copy these from this location to your working directory.

At this point we need to click Ports from the Actions section and the "Select Port Group(s)" option will appear.  At this point we need to validate that the "All Ports" option has been selected.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_94.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

The next section we need to check is "Audits" from the Actions section and the "Select Audit Group(s)" option will appear.  At this point we need to validate that the "All Audits" option has been selected.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_95.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

The final section we need to check is "Options" from the actions section.  Clicking on this will present us with the "Select Options" action section.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_96.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

At this point we need to validate that the following option has been selected:

* Perform OS Detection
* Get Reverse DNS
* Get NetBIOS Name
* Get MAC Address
* Perform Traceroute
* Enable Connect Scan
* Enable Force Scan
* Randomize Target List
* Enumerate Registry via NetBIOS
* Enumerate Users via NetBIOS
* Enumerate Shares via NetBIOS
* Enumerate Files via NetBIOS
* Enumerate Hotfixes via NetBIOS.
* Enumerate Named Pipes via NetBIOS
* Enumerate Machine Information via NetBIOS
* Enumerate Audit Policy via NetBIOS
* Enumerate Per-User Registry Settings via NetBIOS
* Enumerate Groups via NetBIOS
* Enumerate Processes via NetBIOS
* Enumerate a maximum of 100 users

At this point we are ready to actually perform the Audit Scan.  Click the Scan button to start the Audit Scan immediately.  To perform the scan at a later point in time or on a regular schedule, click "Schedule."

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_97.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

<u>''Note:''</u>  Automated tools can sometimes be too aggressive by default and need to be scaled back if the customer is affected.

The results of your scan are automatically saved in .rtd format.

Retina displays your results in the Results table as it scans the selected IP(s).  

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_98.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

=====Qualys=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>

=====Core IMPACT=====

Core IMPACT is a penetration testing and exploitation toolset used for testing the effectiveness of your information security program. Core IMPACT automates several difficult exploits and has a multitude of exploits and post exploitation capabilities.

======Core IMPACT Web======

Core can exploit SQL injection, Remote File Inclusion and Reflected Cross Site Scripting flaws on vulnerable web applications.

'''
[[:File:coreWEBrpt.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
'''

1) Information Gathering.
As always, the first step information gathering. Core organizes web attacks into scenarios. You can create multiple scenarios and test the same application with varying settings, segment a web application, or to separate multiple applications. 
a) Select the target, either by providing a url or telling Core to choose web servers discovered during the network RPT
b) Choose a method for exploring the site, automatic or interactive. 

With automatic crawling, select the browser agent, max pages and depth, whether it should follow links to other/or to include other domains, whether it should run test to determine the server/application framework, whether to evaluate javascript, check robots.txt for links, and how it should handle forms. For greater customization, you can also select a link parsing module and set session parameters.

'''
[[:File:coreWEBcrawl.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
'''

With interactive, you set your îbrowserî to use Core as a proxy and then navigate through the web application.
Further customized discovery modules like checking for backup and hidden pages are available on the modules tab.

'''
[[:File:corerptmodules.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
'''

2) Web Attack and penetration.

The attack can be directed to a scenario or individual pages. Each type of exploit has its own configuration wizard.
SQL Injection tests can be performed on request parameters and/or request cookies. There are three different levels of injection attacks
FAST: quickly runs the most common tests, NORMAL: runs the tests that are in the FAST plus some additional tests FULL: runs all tests (for details on what the difference tests check for, select the modules tab, navigate to the Exploits | SQL Injection section and view the contents of the SQL Injection Analyzer paying attention to the fuzz_strings). Adding information about known custom error pages and any session arguments will enhance testing.
For XSS attacks, configure the browser XSS should be tested for, whether or not to evaluate POST parameters and whether to look for Persistent XSS vulnerabilities.
For PHP remote file injection vulnerabilities, the configuration is either yes try to exploit or no, donít.
Monitor the module progress in the Executed Modules pane. If the WebApps Attack and Penetration is successful, then Core Agents (see note on agents in Core network RPT) will appear under vulnerable pages in the Entity View.

3) Web Apps Browser attack.

Can leverage XSS exploits to assist with Social Engineering awareness tests. The wizard will guide the penetration tester though the process of leveraging the XSS vulnerability to your list of recipients from the client side information gathering phase. 

4) Web App Local Information Gathering.

Will check for sensitive information, get database logins and get the database schema for pages where SQL was successfully exploited. Command and SQL shells may also be possible. 

'''
[[:File:coreWEBagendeployed.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
'''

The RFI agent(PHP) can be used to gather information, for shell access, or to install the full Core Agent. 

5) Report Generation.
Select from a variety of reports like executive, vulnerability and activity reports.

Core Onestep Web RPTs
Core also has two one-step rapid penetration tests
1) WebApps Vulnerability Test
Type in the web application and Core will attempt to locate pages that contain vulnerabilities to SQL Injection, PHP Remote File Inclusion, or Cross-site Scripting attacks. This test can also be scheduled. 
2) WebApps Vulnerability Scanner Validator

Core will try to confirm vulnerabilities from IBM Rational AppScan, HP WebInspect, or NTOspider scans.

======Core IMPACT WiFi======

Core Impact contains a number of modules for penetration testing an 802.11 wireless network and/or the security of wireless clients. 
In order to use the wireless modules you must use an AirPcap adapter available from www.cacetech.com.

'''
[[:File:corewireless.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
'''

1) Information Gathering.
Select the channels to scan to discover access points or capture wireless packets.

2) Wireless Denial of Service
The station deauth module can be used to demonstrate wireless network disruption. It is also used to gather information for encryption key cracking.

3) Crack Encryption Keys.
Attempt to discover and crack WEP and WPA/WPA2 PSK encryption keys. For WPA/WPA2, relevant passwords files from recognizance phase should be used.

4) Man in the Middle client attacks.
Allows penetration tester to sniff wireless traffic, intercept or manipulate requests to gain access to sensitive data or an end user system. 
Leverage existing wireless network from steps one and two, or setup fake access points with the Karma Attack.

5) Reporting.
Reports about all the discovered WiFi networks , summary information about attacks while using a Fake Access Point and results of Man In The Middle (MiTM) attacks can be generated.

======Core IMPACT Client Side======

Core Impact can perform controlled and targeted social engineering attacks against a specified user community via email, web browsers, third-party plug-ins, and other client-side applications.

'''
[[:File:coreCSrpt.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
'''

1) As always, the first step information gathering.  Core Impact has automate modules for scraping email addresses our of search engines (can utilize search API keys), PGP, DNS and WHOIS records, LinkedIn as well as by crawling a website, contents and metadata for Microsoft Office Documents and PDFs , or importing from a text file generated using  source as documented in the intelligence gather section of the PTES.
2) With the target list complete, the next step is to create the attack. Core supports multiple types of attacks, including single exploit, multiple exploits or a phishing only attack

'''
[[:File:coreCSattacktype.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
'''
'''
[[:File:coreCSsingle.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
'''
'''
[[:File:coreCSmulti.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
'''
'''
[[:File:coreCSphish.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
'''

Depending on which option is chosen the wizard will walk you through choosing the exploit, setting  the duration of the client side test, and choosing an email template (note: predefined templates are available, but message should be customized to match target environment!) .Web links can be obfuscated using  tinyURL, Bit.Ly or Is.gd.  
After setting the options for the email server the Core Agent connect back method (HTTP,  HTTPS, or other port), and choosing whether or not to run a module on successful exploitation or to try to collect smb credentials, the attack will start. 
Specific modules can be run instead of using the wizard by choosing the modules tab

'''
[[:File:corerptormodules.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
'''

Monitor the Executed Modules pane to see the progress of the client side attack. As agents are deployed, they will be added to the network tab. See the network RPT section of the PTES for details on completing the local information gathering, privilege escalation and clean up tasks. 

Once the client side attack is complete, detailed reporting of the client side phishing/exploitation engagement can be generated.    

It is also possible to create a trojaned USB drive that will automatically install the Core agent.

'''
[[:File:coreCSusb.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
'''


======Core Web======
Core can exploit SQL injection, Remote File Inclusion and Reflected Cross Site Scripting flaws on vulnerable web applications.
'''
[[:File:coreWEBrpt.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
'''

1) Information Gathering.
As always, the first step information gathering. Core organizes web attacks into scenarios. You can create multiple scenarios and test the same application with varying settings, segment a web application, or to separate multiple applications. 
a) Select the target, either by providing a url or telling Core to choose web servers discovered during the network RPT
b) Choose a method for exploring the site, automatic or interactive. 
    With automatic crawling, select the browser agent, max pages and depth, whether it should follow links to other/or to include other domains, whether it should run test to determine the server/application framework, whether to evaluate javascript, check robots.txt for links, and how it should handle forms. For greater customization, you can also select a link parsing module and set session parameters.

======coreWEBcrawl======
With interactive, you set your ”browser” to use Core as a proxy and then navigate through the web application.
Further customized discovery modules like checking for backup and hidden pages are available on the modules tab.
'''
[[:File:corerptmodules.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
''' 

2) Web Attack and penetration.
The attack can be directed to a scenario or individual pages. Each type of exploit has its own configuration wizard.
SQL Injection tests can be performed on request parameters and/or request cookies. There are three different levels of injection attacks
FAST: quickly runs the most common tests, NORMAL: runs the tests that are in the FAST plus some additional tests FULL: runs all tests (for details on what the difference tests check for, select the modules tab, navigate to the Exploits | SQL Injection section and view the contents of the SQL Injection Analyzer paying attention to the fuzz_strings). Adding information about known custom error pages and any session arguments will enhance testing.
For XSS attacks, configure the browser XSS should be tested for, whether or not to evaluate POST parameters and whether to look for Persistent XSS vulnerabilities.
For PHP remote file injection vulnerabilities, the configuration is either yes try to exploit or no, don’t.
Monitor the module progress in the Executed Modules pane. If the WebApps Attack and Penetration is successful, then Core Agents (see note on agents in Core network RPT) will appear under vulnerable pages in the Entity View.

3) Web Apps Browser attack.
Can leverage XSS exploits to assist with Social Engineering awareness tests. The wizard will guide the penetration tester though the process of leveraging the XSS vulnerability to your list of recipients from the client side information gathering phase. 

4) Web App Local Information Gathering.
Will check for sensitive information, get database logins and get the database schema for pages where SQL was successfully exploited. Command and SQL shells may also be possible. 
'''
[[:File:coreWEBagendeployed.jpg|Screenshot Here]]
'''
The RFI agent(PHP) can be used to gather information, for shell access, or to install the full Core Agent. 

5) Report Generation.
Select from a variety of reports like executive, vulnerability and activity reports.

======Core Onestep Web RPTs======
Core also has two one-step rapid penetration tests
1) WebApps Vulnerability Test
Type in the web application and Core will attempt to locate pages that contain vulnerabilities to SQL Injection, PHP Remote File Inclusion, or Cross-site Scripting attacks. This test can also be scheduled. 
2) WebApps Vulnerability Scanner Validator
Core will try to confirm vulnerabilities from IBM Rational AppScan, HP WebInspect, or NTOspider scans.

======Core WiFi======
Core Impact contains a number of modules for penetration testing an 802.11 wireless network and/or the security of wireless clients. 
In order to use the wireless modules you must use an AirPcap adapter available from www.cacetech.com.
<corewireless.jpg>
1) Information Gathering.
Select the channels to scan to discover access points or capture wireless packets.

2) Wireless Denial of Service
The station deauth module can be used to demonstrate wireless network disruption. It is also used to gather information for encryption key cracking.

3) Crack Encryption Keys.
Attempt to discover and crack WEP and WPA/WPA2 PSK encryption keys. For WPA/WPA2, relevant passwords files from recognisance phase should be used.

4) Man in the Middle client attacks.
Allows penetration tester to sniff wireless traffic, intercept or manipulate requests to gain access to sensitive data or an end user system. 
Leverage existing wireless network from steps one and two, or setup fake access points with the Karma Attack.

5) Reporting.
Reports about all the discovered WiFi networks , summary information about attacks while using a Fake Access Point and results of Man In The Middle (MiTM) attacks can be generated.

=====SAINT=====
SAINT Professional is a commercial suite combining two distinct tools rolled into one easy to use management interface; SAINTscanner and SAINTexploit providing a fully integrated vulnerability assessment and penetration testing toolkit.  
 
SAINTscanner is designed to identify vulnerabilities on network devices, OS and within applications.  It can be used for compliance and audit testing based on pre-defined and custom policies.  In addition as a data leakage prevention tool it can enumerate any data that should not be stored on the network. 
SAINTexploit is designed to exploit those vulnerabilities identified by SAINTscanner, with the ability to carry out bespoke social engineering and phishing attacks also.  One a host or device has been exploited it can be utilised to tunnel through to other vulnerable hosts.
SAINT can either be built from source or be run from a pre-configured virtual machine supplied by the vendor.  If the latter is used (recommended) simply double clicking the icon will launch the suite.  By default the password is “SAINT!!!”  The default web browser opens after SAINT auto updates to the following URL: http://<IP ADDRESS>:52996/
Screenshot Here SAINT_startup.png refers (included).

======SAINTscanner======
Once logged in you immediately enter the SAINTscanner page with the Penetration Testing (SAINTXploit) tab easily available and visible.  It is possible to login remotely to SAINT, by default this is over port 1414 and has those hosts allowed to connect have to be setup via Options, startup options, Category remote mode, subcategory host options:
Screenshot Here  SAINT_Remote_host.png refers (included).
Configuration of scanning options should now be performed which is accessed by Options, scanning options, Category scanning policy.  Each sub category needs to be addressed to ensure that the correct default scanning parameters are set i.e. using nmap rather than the in-built SAINT port scanner and which ports to probe, that dangerous checks are disabled (if required) and that the required items for compliance and audit are enabled for reporting i.e. anti-virus, age of definition check etc.
Screenshot Here SAINT_scanning_options.png refers (included).
Note: - The target restrictions sub-category should be amended if any hosts are not to be probed.
The most import scanning option is Category Scanning policy, sub-category probe options, option, what scanning policy should be used, the scan required is selected or a custom policy built-up to suit the actual task
Screenshot here SAINT_policy_setup.png  refers (included).
Having configured all the options required the actual process of carrying out a scan can be addressed.
Step 1 Insert IP Range/ Address or Upload Target List    
Step 2 Type in credentials
Screenshot here SAINT_scansetup1.png  refers (included).
Step 3 Select Scan Policy Type
Step 4 Determine Firewall settings for Target
Step 5 Select Scan Now
Screenshot here SAINT_scansetup2.png  refers (included).

======SAINTexploit======
Different levels of penetration tests can be carried out: 
 
Discovery - Identify hosts.
Information Gathering - Identify hosts, probe and port scan.
Single Penetration - Both above then exploits stopping at first successful exploit.
Root Penetration - Exploit then Privilege escalation to admin/ root.
Full Penetration - Exploits as many vulnerabilities as possible.
Web Application - Attacks discovered web applications.
 
Conducting a test is fairly straight forward, once any prior configuration has been carried out, callback ports, timeouts etc. Just select the Pen Test icon then go through the following 4 steps.  Once complete select run pen test now.

Step 1 Insert IP Range/ Address or Upload Target List    
Step 2 Type in credentials                                          

Screenshot here SAINT_pen1.png  refers (included).

Step 3 Select Penetration Test Type
Step 4 Determine Firewall settings for Target

SAINT_pen2.png Screenshot here SAINT_pen2.png  refers (included).

Once a host has been successfully exploited, navigating to the connections tab provides the ability to directly interact with the session.  SAINTexploit provides four useful tools in this tab to allow interactive access to the session and a disconnect button to close any outstanding connection:
 
Command Prompt.
File and Upload Manager.
Screenshot Taker
Tunnel.

Screenshot here SAINT_connections.png refers (included)
The File Manager gives the ability to perform numerous actions. This is opened via the connections tab, providing the ability to upload/ download/ rename files.
Screenshot here SAINT_filemgr.png refers (included)
A Command Prompt can be utilised on an exploited host, the tool is opened via the connections tab, all DOS/Bash type commands that are applicable to the target OS can be ran.      
Screenshot here SAINT_cmd.png refers (included)
The Screenshot Tool can be used against an exploited host to grab a screenshot for the report.
Screenshot here SAINT_screen.png refers (included)
Varied other tools that can be utilised against the host, i.e. grabbing password hashes and many others can be accessed and executed via the exploits icon, tools option.

Custom Client Side attacks
These can be performed by using the exploits icon, selecting exploits, expanding out the client list and clicking on the appropriate exploit that you wish to utilise against the client (run now)
Screenshot here SAINT_client1.png refers (included)
Select, port the client is to connect to, the shell port and the target type.
Annotate any specific mail from and to parameters
Screenshot here SAINT_client2.png refers (included)
Type in the subject, either select a predefined template and alter the message to suit
Screenshot here SAINT_client3.png refers (included)
A sample pre-defined template is available which looks very realistic
Screenshot here SAINT_client4.png refers (included)
Selecting run now will start the exploit server against the specified target host
Screenshot here SAINT_client5.png refers (included)
If a client click the link in the email they have just been sent, and they are exploitable, the host will appear in the connections tab and can then be interacted with as above.

======SAINTwriter======
SAINTwriter is a component of SAINT that allows you to generate a variety of customised reports. SAINTwriter features eight pre-configured reports, eight report formats (HTML, Frameless HTML, Simple HTML, PDF, XML, text, tab-separated text, and comma-separated text), and over 100 configuration options for custom reports. 

To generate a report

Step 1 From the SAINT GUI, go to Data, and from there go to SAINTwriter. 
Step 2 Read the descriptions of the pre-configured reports and select the one which best suits your needs. 
Screenshot here SAINT_writer.png  refers (included). 
A sample report is available here and here SAINT_report1.pdf and SAINT_report2.pdf refer (included)

====Web Application Scanners====
=====General Web Application Scanners=====
======WebInspect (Windows)======
HP's WebInspect application security assessment tool helps identify known and unknown vulnerabilities within the Web application layer.  WebInspect can also help check that a Web server is configured properly, and attempts common web attacks such as parameter injection, cross-site scripting, directory traversal, and more

When you first start WebInspect, the application displays the Start Page.  For this page we can perform the five major functions within the WebInpsect GUI.  The options are to start a Web Site Assessment, start a Web Service Assessment, start an Enterprise Assessment, generate a Report, and start Smart Update.  From the Start Page, you can also access recently opened scans, view the scans that are scheduled for today and finally, view the WebInspect Messages.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_99.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

The first scan that is performed with WebInspect is the Web Site Assessment Scan.  WebInspect makes use of the New Web Site Assessment Wizard to setup the assessment scans.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_100.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

When you start the New Scan wizard, the Scan Wizard window appears.  The options displayed within the wizard windows are extracted from the WebInspect default settings.  The important thing to note is that any changes you make will be used for this scan only.

In the Scan Name box, enter a name or a brief description of the scan.  Next you need to select one an assessment mode.  The options available are Crawl Only, Crawl and Audit, Audit Only, and Manual.  The "Crawl Only" option completely maps a site's tree structure.  It is possible after a crawl has been completed, to click "Audit" to assess an application's vulnerabilities.  "Crawl and Audit" maps the site's hierarchical data structure, and audits each page as it is discovered.  This should be used when assessing extremely large sites.  "Audit Only" determines vulnerabilities, but does not crawl the web site.  The site is not assessed when this option is chosen.  Finally, "Manual" mode allows you to navigate manually to sections of the application.  It does not crawl the entire site, but records information only about those resources that you encounter while scanning a Site manually navigating the site.  Use this option if there are credentialed scans being performed.  Also, ensure that you embed the credentials in the profile settings.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_101.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

It is recommended to crawl the client site first.  This allows the opportunity to identify any forms that need to be filtered during the audit as well as identify directories/file names (in some cases, even the profiler) that need to be ignored for a scan to complete.

Once you have selected the assessment mode, you will need to select the assessment type.  There are four options available, Standard Assessment, List-Driven Assessment, Manual Assessment, and Workflow-Driven Assessment.  The Standard Assessment type consists of automated analysis, starting from the target URL.  This is the normal way to start a scan.  Manual Assessment allows you to navigate manually to

whatever sections of your application you choose to visit, using Internet Explorer.  List-Driven Assessment performs an assessment using a list of URLs to be scanned.  Each URL must be fully qualified and must include the protocol (for example, http:// or https://).  Workflow-Driven Assessment: WebInspect audits only those URLs included in the macro that you previously recorded and does not follow any hyperlinks encountered during the audit.

As discussed earlier, Standard Assessment will normally be used for the initial scans.  If this is the choice you've selected you will need to type or select the complete URL or IP address of the client's site to be examined.  When you enter a URL, it must be precise.  For example, if you entering client.com will not result in a scan of www.client.com or any other variations.  To scan from a specific point append a starting point for the scan, such as http://www.client.com/clientapplication/.  By default, scans performed by IP address will not follow links that use fully qualified URLs.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_102.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

Select "Restrict to folder" to limit the scope of the assessment to the area selected.  There are three options available from the drop-down list.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_103.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

The choices are Directory only, Directory and subdirectories, and Directory and parent directories.  Choosing the "Directory only" option will force a crawl and/or audit only for the URL specified.  The "Directory and subdirectories" options will crawl and/or audit at the URL specified as well as subordinate directories.  It will not access any directory than the URL specified.  The "Directory and parent directories" option will crawl and/or audit the URL you specified, but will not access any subordinate directories.

Once you have selected to appropriate options, click Next to continue.

If the target site needs to accessed through a proxy server, select Network Proxy and then choose an option from the Proxy Profile list.  The default is to Use Internet Explorer.  The other options available are Autodetect, Use PAC File, Use Explicit Proxy Settings, and Use Mozilla Firefox.  Autodetect uses the Web Proxy Autodiscovery Protocol (WPAD) to locate a proxy autoconfig file and use this to configure the browser's Web proxy settings. Use PAC File loads proxy settings from a Proxy Automatic Configuration (PAC) file.  Use Explicit Proxy Settings allows you to specify proxy server settings. Use Mozilla Firefox imports the proxy server information from Firefox.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_104.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

Selecting to use browser proxy settings does not guarantee that you will be able to access the Internet through a particular proxy server.  If the Internet Explorer settings are configured to use a proxy that is not running, then you will not be able to access the site to begin the assessment.  For this reason, it is always recommended to check the prosy settings of the application you have selected.

Select Network Authentication if server authentication is required.  Then choose the specific authentication method and enter your network credentials.  Click Next to continue.

The Coverage and Thoroughness options are not usually modified, unless you are targeting an Oracle site.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_105.png|Screenshot Here]]

To optimize settings for an Oracle site, select Framework and then choose the site type from the Optimize scan for list.  Use the Crawl slider to specify the crawler settings.

If enabled, the slider allows you to select one of four crawl positions.  The options are Thorough, Default, Normal, and Quick.  The specific settings are as follows:

Thorough uses the following settings:

* Redundant Page Detection: OFF 
* Maximum Single URL Hits: 20
* Maximum Web Form Submissions: 7
* Create Script Event Sessions: ON
* Maximum Script Events Per Page: 2000
* Number of Dynamic Forms Allowed Per Session: Unlimited
* Include Parameters In Hit Count: True

Default uses the following settings:

* Redundant Page Detection: OFF
* Maximum Single URL Hits: 5
* Maximum Web Form Submissions: 3
* Create Script Event Sessions: ON
* Maximum Script Events Per Page: 1000
* Number of Dynamic Forms Allowed Per Session: Unlimited
* Include Parameters In Hit Count: True

Normal uses the following settings:

* Redundant Page Detection: OFF
* Maximum Single URL Hits: 5
* Maximum Web Form Submissions: 2
* Create Script Event Sessions: ON
* Maximum Script Events Per Page: 300
* Number of Dynamic Forms Allowed Per Session: 1
* Include Parameters In Hit Count: False

Quick uses the following settings:

* Redundant Page Detection: ON
* Maximum Single URL Hits: 3
* Maximum Web Form Submissions: 1
* Create Script Event Sessions: OFF
* Maximum Script Events Per Page: 100
* Number of Dynamic Forms Allowed Per Session: 0
* Include Parameters In Hit Count: False

Select the appropriate crawl position and click Next to continue.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_106.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

Ensure that the select Run Profiler Automatically box is checked.  Click Next to continue.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_107.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

At this point the scan has been properly configured.  There is an option to save the scan settings for later use.  Click Scan to exit the wizard and begin the scan.

As soon as you start a Web Site Assessment, WebInspect displays in the Navigation pane an icon depicting each session.  It also reports possible vulnerabilities on the Vulnerabilities tab and Information tab in the Summary pane.  If you click a URL listed in the Summary pane, the program highlights the related session in the Navigation pane and displays its associated information in the Information pane.  The relative severity of a vulnerability listed in the Navigation pane is identified by its associated icon.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_108.png|Screenshot Here]]

<br>When conducting or viewing a scan, the Navigation pane is on the left side of the WebInspect'' ''window.  It includes the Site, Sequence, Search, and Step Mode buttons, which determines view presented.

When conducting or viewing a scan, the Information pane contains three collapsible information panels and an information display area.  Select the type of information to display by clicking on an item in one of three information panels in the left column.

The Summary pane has five tabs: Vulnerabilities, Information, Best Practices, Scan Log, and Server Information.  The Vulnerabilities Tab lists all vulnerabilities discovered during an audit.  The Information Tab lists information discovered during an assessment or crawl.  These are not considered vulnerabilities, but simply identify interesting points in the site or certain applications or Web servers.  The Best Practices Tab lists issues detected by WebInspect that relate to commonly accepted best practices for Web development.  Items listed here are not vulnerabilities, but are indicators of overall site quality and site development security practices (or lack thereof).

The Scan Log Tab is used to view information about the assessment.  For instance, the time at which certain auditing was conducted against the target.  Finally, the Server Information Tab lists items of interest pertaining to the server.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_109.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

The final step is to export the results further analysis.  To export the results of the analysis to an XML file, click File, then Export.  This presents the option to export the Scan or Scan Details.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_110.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

From the Export Scan Details window we need to choose the Full from the Details option.  This will ensure that we obtain the most comprehensive report possible.  Since this is only available in XML format, the only option we have left to choose is to scrub data.  If you want to ensure that SSN, and Credit Card data is scrubbed then select these options.  If you choose to scrub IP address information then the exported data will be useless for our purposes.  Click Export to continue.  Choose the file location to save the exported data.

'''Web Service Assessment Scan'''

The first scan that is performed with WebInspect is the Web Site Assessment Scan.  WebInspect makes use of the New Web Site Assessment Wizard to setup the assessment scans.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_111.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

When you start the New wizard, the Web Service Scan Wizard window appears.  The options displayed within the wizard windows are extracted from the WebInspect default settings.  The important thing to note is that any changes you make will be used for this scan only.

In the Scan Name box, enter a name or a brief description of the scan.  Next you need to select one an assessment mode.  The options available are Crawl Only, and Crawl and Audit.  The "Crawl Only" option completely maps a site's tree structure.  It is possible after a crawl has been completed, to click "Audit" to assess an application's vulnerabilities.  "Crawl and Audit" maps the site's hierarchical data structure, and audits each page as it is discovered.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_112.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

Once you have selected the assessment mode, you will need to select the location of the WSDL file.  WSDL is an XML format for describing network services as a set of endpoints operating on messages containing either document-oriented or procedure-oriented information.  Once you have selected to appropriate options, click Next to continue.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_113.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

At this point the scan has been properly configured.  There is an option to save the scan settings for later use.  Click Scan to exit the wizard and begin the scan.

As soon as you start a Web Service Assessment, WebInspect displays in the Navigation pane an icon depicting each session.  It also reports possible vulnerabilities on the Vulnerabilities tab and Information tab in the Summary pane.  If you click a URL listed in the Summary pane, the program highlights the related session in the Navigation pane and displays its associated information in the Information pane.  The relative severity of a vulnerability listed in the Navigation pane is identified by its associated icon.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_114.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

When conducting or viewing a scan, the Navigation pane is on the left side of the WebInspect'' ''window.  It includes the Site, Sequence, Search, and Step Mode buttons, which determines view presented.

When conducting or viewing a scan, the Information pane contains three collapsible information panels and an information display area.  Select the type of information to display by clicking on an item in one of three information panels in the left column.

The Summary pane has five tabs: Vulnerabilities, Information, Best Practices, Scan Log, and Server Information.  The Vulnerabilities Tab lists all vulnerabilities discovered during an audit.  The Information Tab lists information discovered during an assessment or crawl.  These are not considered vulnerabilities, but simply identify interesting points in the site or certain applications or Web servers.  The Best Practices Tab lists issues detected by WebInspect that relate to commonly accepted best practices for Web development.  Items listed here are not vulnerabilities, but are indicators of overall site quality and site development security practices (or lack thereof).

The Scan Log Tab is used to view information about the assessment.  For instance, the time at which certain auditing was conducted against the target.  Finally, the Server Information Tab lists items of interest pertaining to the server.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_115.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

The final step is to export the results for further analysis.  To export the results of the analysis to an XML file, click File, then Export.  This presents the option to export the Scan or Scan Details.

'''
[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_116.png|Screenshot Here]]
'''

From the Export Scan Details window we need to choose the Full from the Details option.  This will ensure that we obtain the most comprehensive report possible.  Since this is only available in XML format, the only option we have left to choose is to scrub data.  If you want to ensure that SSN, and Credit Card data is scrubbed then select these options.  If you choose to scrub IP address information then the exported data will be useless for our purposes.  Click Export to continue.  Choose the file location to save the exported data.

======IBM AppScan======
IBM Rational AppScan automates application security testing by scanning applications, identifying vulnerabilities and generating reports with recommendations to ease remediation. 
This tutorial will apply to the AppScan Standard Edition which is a desktop solution to automate Web application security testing. It is intended to be use by small security teams with several security testers.
 
<AppScan01 Screen Shot Here>

To ensure APPScan has the latest updates you should click update on the toolbar menu. 
This will check the IBM servers for updates. Internet access is required.
 
<AppScan02 Screen Shot Here>

The simplest way to configure a scan is to use the Configuration Wizard. 
You can access the Configuration Wizard by clicking “New” on the File menu.
You will be presented with the “New Scan” dialog box. Enable or disable the “Configuration Wizard” by checking the box. 
 
<AppScan03 Screen Shot Here>

You can then choose what type of scan you wish to perform. The default is a Web Application Scan.

 
<AppScan04 Screen Shot Here>

You then have to enter the starting URL for the web application. Other options on that screen include choosing Case-Sensitivity path for Unix\Linux systems, adding additional servers and domains and enabling proxy and platform authentication option. Uncheck the case-sensitivity path option if you know all the systems are windows as it can help reduce the scan time.
 
<AppScan05 Screen Shot Here>

If the web application requires authentication then there are several options to choose from. Recorded allows you to record the login procedure so that AppScan can perform the login automatically. Prompt will prompt with the login screen during the scan when a login is required. Automatic can be used in web applications that only require a username and password.
An important option is the “I want to configure In-Session detection options” if anything other they “None” is chosen. This option automatically detects if the web application is out of session. AppScan with automatically configure this feature but if it’s not correct scan results will be unreliable.  

<AppScan06 Screen Shot Here>


<AppScan06a Screen Shot Here>

Next you will be asked to choose a test policy. There are various built-in policies and each have various inclusions and exclusions. You can also create a custom policy.

By default AppScan tests the login and logout pages. This is enabled with the “Send tests on login and logout pages” option. Some applications have safeguards that could lockout the test account and prevent a scan from completing. You need monitor the testing logs to ensure login is not failing.
AppScan also deletes previous session tokens before testing login pages. You may need to disable this option if a valid session token is required on the login pages. This can disabled by unchecking the “Clear session identifiers before testing login pages” option
 
<AppScan07 Screen Shot Here>

You have now completed the scan configuration and will be prompted to start the scan. By default AppScan will start a full scan of the application. To ensure full coverage of the application a Manual Explore of the application is preferred. With this option AppScan with provide you with a browser window and you can access the application to explore every option and feature available. Once the full application has been explored you can close the browser and AppScan will add the discovered pages its list for testing. You can then start the full scan (Using ScanFull Scan on the menu bar) and AppScan will automatically scan the application. 



 
<AppScan08 Screen Shot Here>

======Web Directory Listing/Bruteforcing======
DirBuster is a java application that is designed to brute force web directories and files names.  DirBuster attempts to find hidden or obfuscated directories, but as with any bruteforcing tool, it is only as good as the directory and file list utilized.  For that reason, DirBuster has 9 different lists.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_117.png|Screenshot Here]]

======Webserver Version/Vulnerability Identification======
The ability to identify the Webserver version is critical to identify vulnerabilities specific to a particular installation.  This information should have been gathered as part of an earlier phase.

=====NetSparker (Windows)=====

NetSparker is windows based Web Application Scanner. This scanner tests for all
common types of web application security flaws. This scanner allows the user to
enter NTLM, Forms based and certificate based credentials. NetSparker boasts its
ability to confirm the findings it presents to the user. NetSparker is an inexpensive
Web Application Scanner.

When launching NetSparker, the user is presented with the following screen, which
has tabs for the Scan Settings, Authentication and Advanced Settings.

<netsparker1.png ScreenShot Here>

NetSparker allows the user to enter credentials for Forms based Authentication in
the following dialogue.

<netsparker2.png ScreenShot Here>

Once credentials have been entered, NetSparker presents those to the web
application in a mini-browser view as seen below.

<netsparker3.png ScreenShot Here>

The below confirms that NetSparker is able to use the supplied credentials to login
to the application.

<netsparker4.png ScreenShot Here>

In an effort to make sure that NetSparker knows when it has logged itself out of the
web application, the user is able to specify the logged in and logged out conditions.

<netsparker5.png ScreenShot Here>

The final step of the process confirms the settings are configured correctly.

<netsparker6.png ScreenShot Here>

NetSparker offers five different methods to start the scan as seen below. These
include Start Scan, Crawl and Wait, Manual Crawl (Proxy Mode), Scan Imported
Links Only and Schedule Scan.

<netsparker7.png ScreenShot Here>

The scan starts with a crawl of the website and classifies the potential security
issues as seen below.

<netsparker8.png ScreenShot Here>

The next phase is attacking the website. This begins to show identified
vulnerabilities as shown in this screenshot.

<netsparker9.png ScreenShot Here>

Each finding can be shown in a Browser View as shown in this screenshot.

<netsparker10.png ScreenShot Here>

The vulnerability can also be displayed in an HTTP Request / Response format as
seen in this screenshot.

<netsparker11.png ScreenShot Here>

To check the status of the scan, click on View and select Dashboard.

<netsparker12.png ScreenShot Here>

Also included is the Vulnerability Chart

<netsparker13.png ScreenShot Here>
Reporting options include PDF, HTML, CSV and XML formats.

=====Specialized Vulnerability Scanners=====
======Virtual Private Networking (VPN)======
Virtual Private Networking (VPN) involves "tunneling" private data through the Internet.  The four most widely known VPN "standards" are Layer 2 Forwarding (L2F), IP Security (IPSec), Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP), and Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol (L2TP).  VPN servers generally will not be detected by a port scans as they don't listen on TCP ports, so a TCP port scan won't find them.  In addition, they won't normally send ICMP unreachable messages, so a UDP port scans more than likely won't find them.  This is why we need specialized scanners to find and identify them.

'''ike-scan'''

ike-scan is a command-line IPsec VPN scanning, fingerprinting and testing tool that uses the IKE protocol to discover, fingerprint and test IPsec VPN servers.  Ike-scan sends properly formatted IKE packet to each of the address you wish to scan and displays the IKE responses that are received.  While ike-scan has a dozens of options, we will only cover the basics here.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_118.png|Screenshot Here]]

Using ike-scan to actually perform VPN discovery is relatively straight forward.  Simply give it a range and it will attempt to identify

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_119.png|Screenshot Here]]

======IPv6======
The THC-IPV6 Attack Toolkit is a complete set of tools to scan for inherent protocol weaknesses of IPv6 deployments.  Implementation6 which performs various implementation checks on IPv6.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_120.png|Screenshot Here]]

Exploit6 is another tool from the THC-IPV6 Attack Toolkit which can test for known ipv6 vulnerabilities.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_121.png|Screenshot Here]]

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_122.png|Screenshot Here]]

======War Dialing======
War dialing is process of using a modem to automatically scan a list of telephone numbers, usually dialing every number in a local area code to search for computers, Bulletin board systems and fax machines.

'''WarVOX'''

WarVOX is a suite of tools for exploring, classifying, and auditing telephone systems. Unlike normal wardialing tools, WarVOX works with the actual audio from each call and does not use a modem directly. This model allows WarVOX to find and classify a wide range of interesting lines, including modems, faxes, voice mail boxes, PBXs, loops, dial tones, IVRs, and forwarders. WarVOX provides the unique ability to classify all telephone lines in a given range, not just those connected to modems, allowing for a comprehensive audit of a telephone system. VoIP

VoIP networks rely on the network infrastructure that just simply targeting phones and servers is like leaving half the scope untouched.  The intelligence gathering phase should have resulted in  identify all network devices, including routers and VPN gateways, web servers, TFTP servers, DNS servers, DHCP servers, RADIUS servers, and firewalls.  Note:  The default username is admin with a password of warvox.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_122.png|Screenshot Here]]

'''iWar'''

iWar is a War dialer written for Linux, FreeBSD, OpenBSD, etc.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_123.png|Screenshot Here]]

'''Plain Analog Wardialer (PAW) / Python Advanced Wardialing System (PAWS)'''

PAW / PAWS is a wardialing software in python.  It is designed to scan for ISDN (PAWS only) and newer analog modems.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_124.png|Screenshot Here]]

'''SIPSCAN'''

SIPSCAN uses REGISTER, OPTIONS and INVITE request methods to scan for live SIP extensions and users.  SIPSCAN comes with a list of usernames (users.txt) to brute force.  This should be modified to include data collected during earlier phases to target the specific environment.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_125.png|Screenshot Here]]

'''SIPSAK'''

SIPSAK is tool that can test for SIP enabled applications and devices using the OPTION request method only.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_126.png|Screenshot Here]]

'''SVMAP'''

SVMAP is a part of the SIPVicious suite and it can be used to scan identify and fingerprint a single IP or a range of IP addresses.  Svmap allows specifying the method being used such as OPTIONS, INVITE, and REGISTER.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_127.png|Screenshot Here]]

====Passive Testing====
Passive Testing is exactly what it sounds like.  Testing for vulnerabilities but doing so in a passive manner.  This is often best left to automated tools, but it can be accomplished by  manually methods as well.

=====Automated Tools=====
======Traffic Monitoring======
Traffic Monitoring is a passive mechanism for gathering further information about the targets.  This can be helpful in determining the specifics of an operating system or network device.  There are times when active fingerprinting may indicate, for example, an older operating system.  This may or may not be the case.  Passive fingerprinting is essentially a "free" way to ensure that the data you are reporting is as accurate as possible.

'''P0f'''

P0f is an awesome passive fingerprinting tool.  P0f can identify the operating system on based upon machines you connect to and that you connect to as well as machines that you cannot connect to.  Also, it can fingerprint machines based upon the communications that your interfaces can observe.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_128.png|Screenshot Here]]

=====Wireshark=====
Wireshark is a free and open-source packet analyzer. It is used for network troubleshooting, analysis, software and communications protocol development, and education. Originally named Ethereal, in May 2006 the project was renamed Wireshark due to trademark issues.

Wireshark is cross-platform, using the GTK<nowiki>+</nowiki> widget toolkit to implement its user interface, and using pcap to capture packets; it runs on various Unix-like operating systems including Linux, Mac OS X, BSD, and Solaris, and on Microsoft Windows.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_129.png|Screenshot Here]]

=====Tcpdump=====
Tcpdump is a common packet analyzer that runs under the command line. It allows the user to intercept and display TCP/IP and other packets being transmitted or received over a network to which the computer is attached. Tcpdump works on most Unix-like operating systems: Linux, Solaris, BSD, Mac OS X, HP-UX and AIX among others. In those systems, tcpdump uses the libpcap library to capture packets.

There is also a port of tcpdump for Windows called WinDump; this uses WinPcap, which is a port of libpcap to Windows.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_130.png|Screenshot Here]]

=====Metasploit Scanners=====
======Metasploit Unleashed======
The [http://www.offensive-security.com/metasploit-unleashed/Vulnerability_Scanning Metasploit Unleashed] course has several tutorials on performing vulnerability scanning leveraging the Metasploit Framework.

===Vulnerability Validation===
====Public Research====
A product of the vast amount of security research is the discovery of vulnerabilities and associated Proof of Concept (PoC) and/or exploit code.  The results from the vulnerability identification phase must be individually validated and where exploits are available, these must be validated.  The only exception would be an exploit that results in a Denial of Service (DoS).  This would need to be included in the scope to be considered for validation.  There are numerous sites that offer such code for download that should be used as part of the Vulnerability Analysis phase.

* Exploit-db - http://www.exploit-db.com
* Security Focus -  http://www.securityfocus.com
* Packetstorm - http://www.packetstorm.com
* Security Reason - http://www.securityreason.com
* Black Asylum - http://www.blackasylum.com/?p=160

=====Common/default passwords=====
Attempt to identify if a device, application, or operating system is vulnerable to a default credential attack is really as simple as trying to enter in known default passwords.  Default passwords can be obtained from the following websites:<br>
* http://www.phenoelit-us.org/dpl/dpl.html 
* http://cirt.net/passwords 
* http://www.defaultpassword.com
* http://www.passwordsdatabase.com
* http://www.isdpodcast.com/resources/62k-common-passwords/

====Establish target list====

Identifying all potential targets is critical to penetration testing.  Properly established target lists ensure that attacks are properly targeted. If the particular versions of software running in the environment can be identified, the tester is dealing with a known quantity, and can even replicate the environment.  A properly defined target list should include a mapping of OS version, patch level information.  If known it should include web application weaknesses, lockout thresholds and weak ports for attack.

===== Mapping Versions =====

Version checking is a quick way to identify application information. To some extent, versions of services can be fingerprinted using nmap, and versions of web applications can often be gathered by looking at the source of an arbitrary page. 

===== Identifying Patch Levels =====

To identify the patch level of services internally, consider using software which will interrogate the system for differences between versions. Credentials may be used for this phase of the penetration test, provided the client has acquiesced. Vulnerability scanners are particularly effective at identifying patch levels remotely, without credentials. 

===== Looking for Weak Web Applications =====

Identifying weak web applications can be a particularly fruitful activity during a penetration test. Things to look for include OTS applications that have been misconfigured, OTS application which have plugin functionality (plugins often contain more vulnerable code than the base application), and custom applications. Web application fingerprinters such as WAFP can be used here to great effect.

===== Identify Weak Ports and Services ===== 

Identifying weak ports can be done using banner grabbing, nmap and common sense. Many ports and services will lie, or mislead about the specifics of their version. 

===== Identify Lockout threshold =====

Identifying the lockout threshold of an authentication service will allow you to ensure that your bruteforce attacks do not intentionally lock out valid users during your testing. Identify all disparate authentication services in the environment, and test a single, innocuous account for lockout. Often 5 - 10 tries of a valid account is enough to determine if the service will lock users out.

===Attack Avenues===
Attack avenues focus on identifying all potential attack vectors that could be leveraged against a target.  This is much more detailed than simply looking at the open or filtered ports, but evaluates the Footprinting information and automated results in an effort to create an attack tree.

====Creation of Attack Trees====
Attack trees are conceptual diagrams of threats on target systems and should include all possible attack methods to reach those threats.

====Identify protection mechanisms====
There is no magic bullet for detecting and subverting Network or Host based protection mechanisms.  It takes skill and experience.  This is beyond the scope of this document, which only lists the relevant protection mechanisms and describes what they do.

=====Network protections=====
======"Simple" Packet Filters======
Packet filters are rules for classifying packets based on their header fields.  Packet classification is essential to routers supporting services such as quality of service (QoS), virtual private networks (VPNs), and firewalls.

======Traffic shaping devices======
Traffic shaping is the control of computer network traffic in order to optimize or guarantee performance, improve latency, and/or increase usable bandwidth for some kinds of packets by delaying other kinds of packets that meet certain criteria.  During penetration test traffic shaping can also control the volume of traffic being sent into a network in a specified period, or the maximum rate at which the traffic is sent.  For these reasons; traffic shaping is important to detect at the network edges to avoid packet dropping and packet marking.

======Data Loss Prevention (DLP) systems======
Data Loss Prevention (DLP) refers to systems that identify, monitor, and protect data in use, data in motion, and data at rest via content inspection and contextual analysis of activities (attributes of originator, data object, medium, timing, recipient/destination and so on).  DLP systems are analogous to intrusion-prevention system for data.

=====Host based protections=====
Host-based protections usually revolve around an installed software package which monitors a single host for suspicious activity by analyzing events occurring within that host.  The majority of Host-based protections utilize one of three detection methods: signature-based, statistical anomaly-based and stateful protocol analysis.

======Stack/heap protections======
Numerous tools are available that can monitor the host to provide protections against buffer overflows.  Microsoft's Data Execution Prevention mode is an example that is designed to explicitly protect the pointer to the SEH Exception Handler from being overwritten.

======Whitelisting======
Whitelisting provides a list of entities that are being provided a particular privilege, service, mobility, access, or recognition.  An emerging approach in combating attacks by viruses and malware is to whitelist software which is considered safe to run, blocking all others

======AV/Filtering/Behavioral Analysis======
Behavioral analysis works from a set of rules that define a program as either legitimate, or malicious.  Behavioral analysis technology monitors what an application or piece of code does and attempts to restrict its action.  Examples of this might include applications trying to write to certain parts of a system registry, or writing to pre-defined folders.  These and other actions would be blocked, with the actions notified to the user or administrator.

=====Application level protections=====
