
==Exploitation==
===Precision strike===
Additional information on exploitation can be found at the [http://www.offensive-security.com/metasploit-unleashed/Exploit_Development Metasploit Unleashed] course.
====Countermeasure Bypass====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>
=====AV=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>
* Encoding
* Packing
* Whitelist Bypass
* Process Injection
* Purely Memory Resident
=====Human=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>
=====HIPS=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>
=====DEP=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>
=====ASLR=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>
=====VA <nowiki>+</nowiki> NX (Linux)=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>
=====w<nowiki>^</nowiki>x (OpenBSD)=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>
=====WAF=====
A WAF (Web application firewall) is a firewall which can be installed in front of (network topology speaking) a web application. The WAF will analyze each request and look for common web attacks such as Cross Site Scripting and SQLinjection. Like most AV scanners, a blacklisting mechanism is often used to find these potentially malicious HTTP requests (often regex). Since these WAFs are using this blacklisting technique, multiple papers exist on bypassing these types of devices.

=====Stack Canaries=====
In order to understand the use of the Stack Canaries, one needs to understand the fundamental flaw of buffer overflows. A buffer overflow happens when an application fails to properly verify the length of the input received with the length of the buffer in memory to which this data is copied. Due to the way the stack is build, and the way the data is entered on the stack, the input received could be used to overwrite the EIP (extended instruction pointer, this is used by the application to know where the application came from prior to copying the input to the buffer). When an attacker controls the EIP, the execution of the application can be altered in such a way that the attacker has full control of the application. 
A potential fix is by adding a "cookie" or stack canary right after the buffer on the stack. When the application wants to return, the value of the stack canary is verified. If this value has been altered, the program will ignore the EIP and crash therefore making the buffer overflow ineffective. 

Every operating system calculates a different cookie. 


====== Microsoft Windows ======
The cookie in Windows is added by Visual Studio. One of the options when compiling an application is /GS. The option is enabled by default. The cookie is calculated using a few process specific variables. Below is a representative code of how this cookie is calculated.

 <nowiki>
void generate_security_cookie() {
	int defaultval1 = 0xFFFF0000;
	int defaultval2 = 0xBB40E64E; // Hex value of PI without comma...

	int result = 0;
	int resultcomp = 0;

	FILETIME filetimestruct ;
	GetSystemTimeAsFileTime(&filetimestruct);
	LARGE_INTEGER perfcounter;
	QueryPerformanceCounter(&perfcounter);

	int tickc = GetTickCount();
	int threadid = GetCurrentThreadId();
	int processid = GetCurrentProcessId();

	result = result ^ filetimestruct.dwHighDateTime;
	result = result ^ filetimestruct.dwLowDateTime;
	result = result ^ threadid;
	result = result ^ processid;
	result = result ^ tickc;
	result = result ^ perfcounter.HighPart;
	result = result ^ perfcounter.LowPart;

	if (result == defaultval2) {
		printf("Wow, what are they odd of getting the same value as the beginning");
		result = 0xBB40E64E;
	} else {
		if (!(result & defaultval1)) {
			
			int temp = (result | 0x4711) << 16;
			result |= temp;
		}
	}
	resultcomp = ~result;	
</nowiki>

As you can see, some of these values are not hard to figure out. Except for maybe the LowDateTime and the performance counter. An excellent paper has been written concerning this lack of entropy. More information can be found in that paper here ([http://j00ru.vexillium.org/?p=690 Exploiting the otherwise non-exploitable])

====== Linux ======
As in Windows, the somewhat default compiler, gcc, adds the code for the stack canarie. This code can be found in the file libssp/ssp.c

 <nowiki>
static void __attribute__ ((constructor))
__guard_setup (void)
{
  unsigned char *p;
  int fd;

  if (__stack_chk_guard != 0)
    return;

  fd = open ("/dev/urandom", O_RDONLY);
  if (fd != -1)
    {
      ssize_t size = read (fd, &__stack_chk_guard,
                           sizeof (__stack_chk_guard));
      close (fd);
      if (size == sizeof(__stack_chk_guard) && __stack_chk_guard != 0)
        return;
    }

  /* If a random generator can't be used, the protector switches the guard
     to the "terminator canary".  */
  p = (unsigned char *) &__stack_chk_guard;
  p[sizeof(__stack_chk_guard)-1] = 255;
  p[sizeof(__stack_chk_guard)-2] = '\n';
  p[0] = 0;
}
</nowiki>

It is known that some older versions of gcc do not use the urandom device in order to create a new cookie. They use a preset cookie value (a mix of unprintable characters such as 00 0A 0D and FF). Gcc will compile an application with stack canaries by default.

Problems with the implementation on Linux:
On a linux machine, there are a few different ways of creating a thread. One of them is called fork(). When using fork to create a new thread, the application will "quickly" create a new thread which will reuse the calculated cookie for each new "fork"-ed thread. If a buffer overflow would exist in this forked thread, an attacker could bruteforce the stack canarie. Once again a great article describing this attack can be found here ([http://www.phrack.org/issues.html?issue=67&id=13 Scraps of notes on remote stack overflow exploitation])

====== MAC OS ======
Disabled by default. Contribution required.

===Customized Exploitation===
=====Fuzzing=====
Fuzzing is the process of attempting to discover security vulnerabilities by sending random input to an application.  If the program contains a vulnerability that can leads to an exception, crash or server error (in the case of web apps), it can be determined that a vulnerability has been discovered.  Fuzzers are generally good at finding buffer overflow, DoS, SQL Injection, XSS, and Format String bugs.  Fuzzing falls into two categories: Dumb Fuzzing and Intelligent Fuzzing.

=====Dumb Fuzzing=====
Dumb Fuzzing usually consists of simple modifications to legitimate data, that is then fed to the target application.  In this case, the fuzzer is very easy to write and the idea is to identify low hanging fruit.  Although not an elegant approach, dumb fuzzing can produce results, especially when a target application has not been previously tested.  FileFuzz is an example of a Dumb Fuzzer.  FileFuzz is a Windows based file format fuzzing tool that was designed to automate the launching of applications and detection of exceptions caused by fuzzed file formats.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_131.png|Screenshot Here]]

=====Intelligent Fuzzing=====
Intelligent Fuzzers are ones that are generally aware of the protocol or format of the data being tested.  Some protocols require that the fuzzer maintain state information, such as HTTP or SIP.  Other protocols will make use of authentication before a vulnerability is identified.  Apart from providing much more code coverage, intelligent fuzzers tend to cut down the fuzzing time significantly since they avoid sending data that the target application will not understand. Intelligent fuzzers are therefore much more targeted and sometimes they need to be developed by the security researcher.

====Sniffing====
A packet analyzer is used to intercept and log traffic passing over the network.  It is considered best practice to utilize a sniffer when performing exploitation.  This ensures that all relevant traffic is captured for further analysis.  This is also extremely useful for extracting cleartext passwords.

=====Wireshark=====
Wireshark is a free and open-source packet analyzer. It is used for network troubleshooting, analysis, software and communications protocol development, and education. Originally named Ethereal, in May 2006 the project was renamed Wireshark due to trademark issues.

Wireshark is cross-platform, using the GTK<nowiki>+</nowiki> widget toolkit to implement its user interface, and using pcap to capture packets; it runs on various Unix-like operating systems including Linux, Mac OS X, BSD, and Solaris, and on Microsoft Windows.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_132.png|Screenshot Here]]

=====Tcpdump=====
Tcpdump is a common packet analyzer that runs under the command line. It allows the user to intercept and display TCP/IP and other packets being transmitted or received over a network to which the computer is attached. Tcpdump works on most Unix-like operating systems: Linux, Solaris, BSD, Mac OS X, HP-UX and AIX among others. In those systems, tcpdump uses the libpcap library to capture packets.

There is also a port of tcpdump for Windows called WinDump; this uses WinPcap, which is a port of libpcap to Windows.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_133.png|Screenshot Here]]

====Brute-Force====
A brute force attack is a strategy that can in theory be used by an attacker who is unable to take advantage of any weakness in a system.  It involves systematically checking all possible usernames and passwords until the correct one is found.

=====Brutus (Windows)=====
Brutus is a generic password guessing tool that comes with built-in routines for attacking

HTTP Basic and Forms-based authentication, among other protocols like SMTP and

POP3.  Brutus can perform both ''dictionary ''and randomly generated attacks from a given character set.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_134.png|Screenshot Here]]

=====Web Brute (Windows)=====
Web Brute is included with HP WebInspect and is the primary means of attacking a login form or authentication page, using prepared lists of user names and passwords.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_135.png|Screenshot Here]]

=====THC-Hydra/XHydra=====
THC-Hydra (or just Hydra) is a network logon bruteforcer which supports attacking many different services such as FTP, HTTP, HTTPS, ICQ, IRC, IMAP, LDAP, MS-SQL, MySQL, NCP, NNTP, Oracle, POP3, pcAnywhere, PostgreSQL, REXEC, RDP, RLOGIN, RSH, SAP R/3, SIP, SMB, SMTP, SNMP, SOCKS, SSH, Subversion (SVN), TeamSpeak, Telnet, VNC, VMware Auth Daemon, and XMPP.  It is available in both a command line and GUI version.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_136.png|Screenshot Here]]

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_137.png|Screenshot Here]]

=====Medusa=====
Medus is another network logon bruteforcer which supports attacking many different services such as AFP, CVS, FTP, HTTP, IMAP, MS-SQL, MySQL, NCP, NNTP, Oracle, POP3, pcAnywhere, PostgreSQL, REXEC, RDP, RLOGIN, RSH, SMB, SMTP, SNMP, SOCKS, SSH, Subversion (SVN), Telnet, VNC, and VMware Auth Daemon.  It is only available in a command line version.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_138.png|Screenshot Here]]

=====Ncrack=====
Ncrack is another network logon bruteforcer which supports attacking many different services such as RDP, SSH, http(s), SMB, pop3(s), FTP, and telnet.  Ncrack was designed using a modular approach, a command-line syntax similar to Nmap and a dynamic engine that can adapt its behavior based on network feedback.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_139.png|Screenshot Here]]

====Routing protocols====
Routing protocols specify how routers communicate with each other, disseminating information that enables them to select routes between any two nodes on a computer network, the choice of the route being done by routing algorithms.  Each router has a priori knowledge only of networks attached to it directly.  A routing protocol shares this information first among immediate neighbors, and then throughout the network.  This way, routers gain knowledge of the topology of the network.

====Cisco Discovery Protocol (CDP)====
The Cisco Discovery Protocol (CDP) is a proprietary Data Link Layer network protocol developed by Cisco Systems that is implemented in most Cisco networking equipment.  It is used to share information about other directly connected Cisco equipment, such as the operating system version and IP address.  CDP can also be used for On-Demand Routing, which is a method of including routing information in CDP announcements so that dynamic routing protocols do not need to be used in simple networks.

Cisco devices send CDP announcements to the multicast destination address 01:00:0C:CC:CC:CC, out each connected network interface.  These multicast packets may be received by Cisco switches and other networking devices that support CDP into their connected network interface.  This multicast destination is also used in other Cisco protocols such as VTP.  By default, CDP announcements are sent every 60 seconds on interfaces that support Subnetwork Access Protocol (SNAP) headers, including Ethernet, Frame Relay, and Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM).  Each Cisco device that supports CDP stores the information received from other devices in a table that can be viewed using the show cdp neighbors command.  This table is also accessible via snmp.  The CDP table information is refreshed each time an announcement is received, and the holdtime for that entry is reinitialized.  The holdtime specifies the lifetime of an entry in the table - if no announcements are received from a device for a period in excess of the holdtime, the device information is discarded (default 180 seconds).

The information contained in CDP announcements varies by the type of device and the version of the operating system running on it. This information may include the operating system version, hostname, every address (i.e. IP address) from all protocol(s) configured on the port where CDP frame is sent, the port identifier from which the announcement was sent, device type and model, duplex setting, VTP domain, native VLAN, power draw (for Power over Ethernet devices), and other device specific information.  The details contained in these announcements are easily extended due to the use of the type-length-value (TLV) frame format.  The tool for attacking CDP is Yersinia.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_140.png|Screenshot Here]]

====Hot Standby Router Protocol (HSRP)====
Hot Standby Router Protocol (HSRP) is a Cisco proprietary redundancy protocol for establishing a fault-tolerant default gateway, and has been described in detail in RFC 2281.  The Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP) is a standards-based alternative to HSRP defined in IETF standard RFC 3768.  The two technologies are similar in concept, but not compatible.

The protocol establishes a framework between network routers in order to achieve default gateway failover if the primary gateway should become inaccessible, in close association with a rapid-converging routing protocol like EIGRP or OSPF.  By multicasting packets, HSRP sends its hello messages to the multicast address 224.0.0.2 (all routers) using UDP port 1985, to other HSRP-enabled routers, defining priority between the routers.  The primary router with the highest configured priority will act as a virtual router with a pre-defined gateway IP address and will respond to the ARP request from machines connected to the LAN with the MAC address 0000.0c07.acXX where XX is the group ID in hex.  If the primary router should fail, the router with the next-highest priority would take over the gateway IP address and answer ARP requests with the same mac address, thus achieving transparent default gateway fail-over.  A HSRP Basics Simulation visualizes Active/Standby election and link failover with Hello, Coup, ARP Reply packets, and timers.

HSRP and VRRP are not routing protocols as they do not advertise IP routes or affect the routing table in any way.

HSRP and VRRP on some routers have the ability to trigger a failover if one or more interfaces on the router go down.  This can be useful for dual branch routers each with a single serial link back to the head end.  If the serial link of the primary router goes down, you would want the backup router to take over the primary functionality and thus retain connectivity to the head end.  The tool for attacking HSRP is Yersinia.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_141.png|Screenshot Here]]

====Virtual Switch Redundancy Protocol (VSRP)====
The Virtual Switch Redundancy Protocol (VSRP) is a proprietary network resilience protocol developed by Foundry Networks and currently being sold in products manufactured by both Foundry and Hewlett Packard.  The protocol differs from many others in use as it combines Layer 2 and Layer 3 resilience - effectively doing the jobs of both Spanning tree protocol and the Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol at the same time.  Whilst the restrictions on the physical topologies able to make use of VSRP mean that it is less flexible than STP and VRRP it does significantly improve on the failover times provided by either of those protocols.

====Dynamic Trunking Protocol (DTP)====
The Dynamic Trunking Protocol (DTP) is a proprietary networking protocol developed by Cisco Systems for the purpose of negotiating trunking on a link between two VLAN-aware switches, and for negotiating the type of trunking encapsulation to be used.  It works on the Layer 2 of the OSI model.  VLAN trunks formed using DTP may utilize either IEEE 802.1Q or Cisco ISL trunking protocols.

DTP should not be confused with VTP, as they serve different purposes.  VTP communicates VLAN existence information between switches.  DTP aids with trunk port establishment.  Neither protocol transmits the data frames that trunks carry.  The tool for attacking DTP is Yersinia.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_142.png|Screenshot Here]]

====Spanning Tree Protocol (STP)====
The Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) is a network protocol that ensures a loop-free topology for any bridged Ethernet local area network.  The basic function of STP is to prevent bridge loops and ensuing broadcast radiation.  Spanning tree also allows a network design to include spare (redundant) links to provide automatic backup paths if an active link fails, without the danger of bridge loops, or the need for manual enabling/disabling of these backup links.

STP is a Data Link Layer protocol.  It is standardized as IEEE 802.1D.  As the name suggests, it creates a spanning tree within a mesh network of connected layer-2 bridges (typically Ethernet switches), and disables those links that are not part of the spanning tree, leaving a single active path between any two network nodes.  The tool for attacking STP is Yersinia.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_143.png|Screenshot Here]]

====Open Shortest Path First (OSPF)====
Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) is an adaptive routing protocol for Internet Protocol (IP) networks.  It uses a link state routing algorithm and falls into the group of interior routing protocols, operating within a single autonomous system (AS).  It is defined as OSPF Version 2 in RFC 2328 (1998) for IPv4.  The updates for IPv6 are specified as OSPF Version 3 in RFC 5340 (2008).

====RIP====
RIP is a dynamic routing protocol used in local and wide area networks.  As such it is classified as an interior gateway protocol (IGP).  It uses the distance-vector routing algorithm.  It was first defined in RFC 1058 (1988).  The protocol has since been extended several times, resulting in RIP Version 2 (RFC 2453).  Both versions are still in use today, although they are considered to have been made technically obsolete by more advanced techniques such as Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) and the OSI protocol IS-IS.  RIP has also been adapted for use in IPv6 networks, a standard known as RIPng (RIP next generation) protocol, published in RFC 2080 (1997).

====VLAN Hopping====
VLAN hopping (virtual local area network hopping) is a computer security exploit, a method of attacking networked resources on a VLAN.  The basic concept behind all VLAN hopping attacks is for an attacking host on a VLAN to gain access to traffic on other VLANs that would normally not be accessible.  There are two primary methods of VLAN hopping: switch spoofing and double tagging.

In a switch spoofing attack, an attacking host that is capable of speaking the tagging and trunking protocols used in maintaining a VLAN imitates a trunking switch.  Traffic for multiple VLANs is then accessible to the attacking host.

In a double tagging attack, an attacking host prepends two VLAN tags to packets that it transmits.  The first header (which corresponds to the VLAN that the attacker is really a member of) is stripped off by a first switch the packet encounters, and the packet is then forwarded.  The second, false, header is then visible to the second switch that the packet encounters.  This false VLAN header indicates that the packet is destined for a host on a second, target VLAN.  The packet is then sent to the target host as though it were layer 2 traffic.  By this method, the attacking host can bypass layer 3 security measures that are used to logically isolate hosts from one another.  The tool for attacking 802.1q is Yersinia.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_144.png|Screenshot Here]]

====VLAN Trunking Protocol (VTP)====
VLAN Trunking Protocol (VTP) is a Cisco proprietary Layer 2 messaging protocol that manages the addition, deletion, and renaming of Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN) on a network-wide basis.  Cisco's VLAN Trunk Protocol reduces administration in a switched network.  When a new VLAN is configured on one VTP server, the VLAN is distributed through all switches in the domain.  This reduces the need to configure the same VLAN everywhere.  To do this, VTP carries VLAN information to all the switches in a VTP domain.  VTP advertisements can be sent over ISL, 802.1q, IEEE 802.10 and LANE trunks.  VTP is available on most of the Cisco Catalyst Family products.  The tool for attacking VTP is Yersinia.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_145.png|Screenshot Here]]

===RF Access===
The goal of the earlier phases is to gather every possible piece of information about the Radio Frequencies in use that can be leveraged during this phase.

====Unencrypted Wireless LAN====
It is possible to actually connect to an unencrypted Wireless LAN (WLAN).  To connect to an unencrypted WLAN, you simply have to either issue appropriate commands or use a GUI interface to connect.

=====Iwconfig (Linux)=====
The following commands to connect up to the ESSID.  To ensure that the wireless interface is down, issue the following: <br>
<pre>ifconfig <nowiki><</nowiki>interface<nowiki>></nowiki> down</pre>
Force dhclient to release any currently assigned DHCP addresses with the following command:<br>
<pre>dhclient -r <nowiki><</nowiki>interface<nowiki>></nowiki></pre>
Bring the interface back up with the following command:<br>
<pre>ifconfig <nowiki><</nowiki>interface<nowiki>></nowiki> up</pre>
Iwconfig is similar to ifconfig, but is dedicated to the wireless interfaces.  It is used to set the parameters of the network interface which are specific to the wireless operation.  To assign set the ESSID (or Network Name to the wireless interface, use the following command:

<pre>iwconfig <nowiki><</nowiki>interface<nowiki>></nowiki> essid "ESSID_IN_QUOTES"</pre>
Next we need to set the operating mode of the device, which depends on the network topology.  Setting this to ''Managed'' means that we are connecting to a network that is composed of access points.

<pre>iwconfig <nowiki><</nowiki>interface<nowiki>></nowiki> mode Managed</pre>
Use dhclient to obtain a DHCP addresses with the following command:

<pre>dhclient <nowiki><</nowiki>interface<nowiki>></nowiki></pre>

At this point we should receive an IP address and be connected to the client's wireless network.  Ensure that adequate screen shots are taken to definitively indicate the ability to connect, receive an IP address, and traverse the network.

=====Windows (XP/7)=====
Based upon the wireless network adapter installed, Windows will provide you with a mechanism to connect to wireless networks.  The version of Windows utilized will dictate the process.  For this reason we are covering Windows XP and 7.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_146.png|Screenshot Here]]

Windows XP will show an icon with a notification that says it has found wireless networks.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_147.png|Screenshot Here]]

Right-click the wireless network icon in the lower right corner of your screen, and then click "View Available Wireless Networks."

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_148.png|Screenshot Here]]

The Wireless Network Connection window appears and displays your wireless network listed with the SSID you chose.  If you don't see your network, click Refresh network list in the upper left corner.  Click your network, and then click Connect in the lower right corner.

Windows 7 offers the same ability to connect to wireless networks.  On the right side of the taskbar, you will see a wireless network icon like the one below.  Click on it.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_149.png|Screenshot Here]]

A window with available network connections will open.  As you can see from the screenshot below, the list is split by the type of available network connections.  At the top you have [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dial-up dial-up] and [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VPN virtual private network (VPN)] connections, while at the bottom you have a list of all the wireless networks which Windows 7 has detected.  To refresh the list of available networks, click on the button highlighted in the screenshot below.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_150.png|Screenshot Here]]

You can scroll down through the list of available networks.  Once you decided on which network to connect to, click on it.  Next, click on the ''Connect'' button.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_151.png|Screenshot Here]]

If everything is OK, Windows 7 will connect to the network you selected using the given security key.

====Attacking the Access Point====
All identified access points are vulnerable to numerous attacks.  For completeness, we've included some attack methods that may not be a part of all engagements.  Ensure that the scoping is reviewed prior to initiating any attacks.

=====Denial of Service (DoS)=====
Within the standard, there are two packets that help in this regard, the ''Clear To Send (CTS)'' and ''Request To Send (RTS)'' packets.  Devices use RTS packets when they have something big to send, and they don't want other devices to step on their transmission.  CTS packets are sent so that the device knows it's okay to transmit.  Every device (other than the one that sent the RTS) within the range of the CTS packet cannot transmit anything for the duration specified.

The first technique is to transmit the CTS packets, meaning that anyone in range of your signal will be unable to transmit.  This requires a high-gain Omni-directional antenna to a much greater impact.  The second technique is to send an RTS packet to the AP you are targeting.  Once the AP gets the RTS packet, it will send the CTS.  A highly directional antenna from a distance can be used to target the AP with an RTS packet.  Generally speaking, transmitting the CTS has a greater impact.

====Cracking Passwords====
=====WPA-PSK/ WPA2-PSK=====
WPA-PSK is vulnerable to brute force attack.  Tools like Aircrack and coWPAtty take advantage of this weakness and provided a way to test keys against dictionaries.  The problem is that it's a very slow process.  Precomputational attacks are limited as the BSSID and the BSSID length are seeded into the passphrase hash.  This is why WPA-PSK attacks are generally limited due by time.  There is no difference between cracking WPA or WPA2, the authentication is essentially the same.

The main requirement for any WPA/WPA2 is to capture the authentication handshake and then use Aircrack-ng to crack the pre-shared key.  This can be done either actively or passively.  "Actively" means you will accelerate the process by deauthenticating an existing wireless client.  "Passively" means you simply wait for a wireless client to authenticate to the WPA/WPA2 network.

=====WPA/WPA2-Enterprise=====
In environments with a large number of users, such as corporations or universities, WPA/WPA2 pre-shared key management is not feasible.  For example, it wouldn't be possible to track which users are connected and it would be impossible to revoke access to the network for individuals without changing the key for everyone.  Therefore WPA2 Enterprise authenticates users against a user database (RADIUS).  Two common methods to do that are WPA2-EAP-TTLS and WPA2-PEAP.

====Attacks====
=====LEAP=====
This stands for the Lightweight Extensible Authentication Protocol.  This protocol is based on 802.1X and helps minimize the original security flaws by using WEP and a sophisticated key management system.  This EAP-version is safer than EAP-MD5.  This also uses MAC address authentication.  LEAP is not safe against crackers.  THC-LeapCracker can be used to break Cisco's version of LEAP and be used against computers connected to an access point in the form of a dictionary attack.  Anwrap and asleap are other crackers capable of breaking LEAP.

======Asleap======
Asleap is a designed specifically to recover weak LEAP (Cisco's Lightweight Extensible Authentication Protocol) and PPTP passwords.  Asleap performs Weak LEAP and PPTP password recovery from pcap and AiroPeek files or from live capture.  Finally, it has the ability to deauthenticate clients on a leap WLAN (speeding up leap password recovery).

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_152.png|Screenshot Here]]

The first step involved in the use of asleap is to produce the necessary database (.dat) and index files (.idx) using genkeys from the supplied (-r) a dictionary (wordlist) file.

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_153.png|Screenshot Here]]

The final step in recovering the weak LEAP password is to run the asleap command with our newly created .dat and .idx files:

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_154.png|Screenshot Here]]

=====802.1X=====
802.1X is an IEEE Standard for port-based Network Access Control (PNAC).  It is part of the IEEE 802.1 group of networking protocols.  It provides an authentication mechanism to devices wishing to attach to a LAN or WLAN.

IEEE 802.1X defines the encapsulation of the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) over IEEE 802 which is known as "EAP over LAN" or EAPOL.  There are two main attacks which can be used against 802.1X:<br>

======Key Distribution Attack======

The key distribution attack exploits a weakness in the RADIUS protocol.  The key distribution attack relies on an attacker capturing the PMK transmission between the RADIUS server and the AP.  As the PMK is transmitted outside of the TLS tunnel, its protection is solely reliant on the RADIUS server's HMAC-MD5 hashing algorithm.  Should an attacker be able to leverage a man-in-the-middle attack between the AP and RADIUS sever, a brute-force attempt could be made to crack the RADIUS shared secret.  This would ultimately provide the attacker with access to the PMK - allowing full decryption of all traffic between the AP and supplicant.

======RADIUS Impersonation Attack======
The RADIUS impersonation attack relies on users being left with the decision to trust or reject certificates from the authenticator.  Attackers can exploit this deployment weakness by impersonating the target network's AP service set identifier (SSID) and RADIUS server.  Once both the RADIUS server and AP have been impersonated the attacker can issue a 'fake' certificate to the authenticating user.  After the certificate has been accepted by the user the client will proceed to authenticate via the inner authentication mechanism.  This allows the attacker to capture the MSCHAPv2 challenge/response and attempt to crack it offline.

=====PEAP=====
The Protected Extensible Authentication Protocol (Protected EAP or PEAP) is a protocol that encapsulates the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) within an encrypted and authenticated Transport Layer Security (TLS) tunnel.  The purpose was to correct deficiencies in EAP; EAP assumed a protected communication channel, such as that provided by physical security, so facilities for protection of the EAP conversation were not provided.

======RADIUS Impersonation Attack======
The RADIUS impersonation attack relies on users being left with the decision to trust or reject certificates from the authenticator.  Attackers can exploit this deployment weakness by impersonating the target network's AP service set identifier (SSID) and RADIUS server.  Once both the RADIUS server and AP have been impersonated the attacker can issue a 'fake' certificate to the authenticating user.  After the certificate has been accepted by the user the client will proceed to authenticate via the inner authentication mechanism.  This allows the attacker to capture the MSCHAPv2 challenge/response and attempt to crack it offline.

======Authentication Attack======
The PEAP authentication attack is a primitive means of gaining unauthorized access to PEAP networks.  By sniffing usernames from the initial (unprotected) PEAP identity exchange an attacker can attempt to authenticate to the target network by 'guessing' user passwords.  This attack is often ineffective as the authenticator will silently ignores bad login attempts ensuring a several second delay exists between login attempts.  <br>

=====EAP-Fast=====
EAP-FAST (Flexible Authentication via Secure Tunneling) is Cisco's replacement for LEAP.  The protocol was designed to address the weaknesses of LEAP while preserving the "lightweight" implementation.  EAP-FAST uses a Protected Access Credential (PAC) to establish a TLS tunnel in which client credentials are verified.  EAP-FAST provides better protection against dictionary attacks, but is vulnerable to MITM attacks.  Since many implementations of EAP-FAST leave anonymous provisioning enabled, AP impersonation can reveal weak credential exchanges.

=====WEP/WPA/WPA2=====
The core process of connecting to a WEP encrypted network revolves around obtaining the WEP key for the purpose of connecting to the network.  There are several tools that can be used to perform attacks against WEP.

=====Aircrack-ng=====
Aircrack-ng is an 802.11 WEP and WPA-PSK keys cracking program that can recover keys once enough data packets have been captured.  It implements the standard FMS attack along with some optimizations like KoreK attacks, as well as the all-new PTW attack, thus making the attack much faster compared to other WEP cracking tools.

The first step is to place the wireless interface in monitor mode by entering: 

<pre>airmon-ng start wlan0</pre>

'''Airmon-ng'''

Airmon-ng is used to enable monitor mode on wireless interfaces.  It may also be used to go back from monitor mode to managed mode.  Entering the airmon-ng command without parameters will show the interfaces status.

To start wlan0 in monitor mode: 
<pre>airmon-ng start wlan0</pre>

To start wlan0 in monitor mode on channel 8: 
<pre>airmon-ng start wlan0 8</pre>

To stop wlan0: 
<pre>airmon-ng stop wlan0</pre>

To check the status: 
<pre>airmon-ng</pre>

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_155.png|Screenshot Here]]

Enter "iwconfig" to validate the wireless interfaces.  The output should look similar to:

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_156.png|Screenshot Here]]

'''Airodump-ng'''

Airodump-ng is used for packet capturing of raw 802.11 frames and is particularly suitable for collecting WEP IVs (Initialization Vector) for the intent of using them with Aircrack-ng.  If you have a GPS receiver connected to the computer, Airodump-ng is capable of logging the coordinates of the found access points.

Usage: 
<pre>airodump-ng <nowiki><</nowiki>options<nowiki>></nowiki> <nowiki><</nowiki>interface<nowiki>>[</nowiki>,<nowiki><</nowiki>interface<nowiki>></nowiki>,...<nowiki>]</nowiki>

Options:

--ivs               : Save only captured IVs

--gpsd              : Use GPSd

--write    <nowiki><</nowiki>prefix<nowiki>></nowiki> : Dump file prefix

-w                  : same as --write

--beacons           : Record all beacons in dump file

--update     <nowiki><</nowiki>secs<nowiki>></nowiki> : Display update delay in seconds

--showack           : Prints ack/cts/rts statistics

-h                  : Hides known stations for --showack

-f          <nowiki><</nowiki>msecs<nowiki>></nowiki> : Time in ms between hopping channels

--berlin     <nowiki><</nowiki>secs<nowiki>></nowiki> : Time before removing the AP/client

from the screen when no more packets

are received (Default: 120 seconds)

-r           <nowiki><</nowiki>file<nowiki>></nowiki> : Read packets from that file

-x          <nowiki><</nowiki>msecs<nowiki>></nowiki> : Active Scanning Simulation

--output-format

<nowiki><</nowiki>formats<nowiki>></nowiki> : Output format. Possible values:

pcap, ivs, csv, gps, kismet, netxml

Short format "-o"

The option can be specified multiple   times.  In this case, each file format specified will be output.  Only ivs or pcap can be used, not both.</pre>

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_157.png|Screenshot Here]]

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_158.png|Screenshot Here]]

'''Aireplay-ng'''

Aireplay-ng is primarily used to generate or accelerate traffic for the later use with Aircrack-ng (for cracking WEP keys).  Aireplay-ng supports various attacks such as deauthentication, fake authentication, Interactive packet replay, hand-crafted ARP request injection and ARP-request re injection.  Usage:

<pre>aireplay-ng <nowiki><</nowiki>options<nowiki>></nowiki> <nowiki><</nowiki>replay interface<nowiki>></nowiki></pre>

These are the attack names and their corresponding "numbers":

* '''Attack 0: '''Deauthentication
* '''Attack 1: '''Fake authentication
* '''Attack 2: '''Interactive packet replay
* '''Attack 3: '''ARP request replay attack
* '''Attack 4: '''KoreK chopchop attack
* '''Attack 5: '''Fragmentation attack
* '''Attack 9: '''Injection test

Note: Not all options apply to all attacks.

'''Attack 0 - Deauthentication'''

A deauthentication attack sends disassociation packets to one or more clients who are currently associated with an AP. Disassociating clients can reveal a hidden / cloaked ESSID.  Deauthentication attacks also provide an ability to capture WPA/WPA2 handshakes by forcing clients to re-authenticate.  <br>
<pre>aireplay-ng -0 1 -a 34:EF:44:BB:14:C1 -c 00:E0:4C:6D:27:8D wlan0</pre>

* -0 means deauthentication
* 1 is the number of deauths to send (you can send multiple if you wish); 0 means send them continuously
* -a 34:EF:44:BB:14:C1 is the MAC address of the access point
* -c 00:E0:4C:6D:27:8D is the MAC address of the client to deauthenticate; if this is omitted then all clients are deauthenticated
* wlan0 is the interface name

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_159.png|Screenshot Here]]

'''Attack 1 - Fake authentication'''

The fake authentication attack allows you to perform the two types of WEP authentication (Open System and Shared Key) and to associate with an AP.  This attack is useful in scenarios where there are no associated clients.  Note that fake authentication attacks do not generate ARP packets.

<pre>aireplay-ng -1 0 -e 2WIRE696 -a 34:EF:44:BB:14:C1 -h 00:E0:4C:6D:27:8D wlan0</pre>

* -1 means fake authentication
* 0 reassociation timing in seconds
* -e 2WIRE696 is the wireless network name
* -a 34:EF:44:BB:14:C1 is the access point MAC address
* -h 00:E0:4C:6D:27:8D is our card MAC address
* wlan0 is the wireless interface name

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_160.png|Screenshot Here]]

'''Attack 3 - ARP Request Replay Attack'''

The classic ARP request replay attack is the most effective way to generate new initialization vectors.  This attack is probably the most reliable of all.  The program listens for an ARP packet then retransmits it back to the AP.  This, in turn causes the AP to repeat the ARP packet with a new IV. The program retransmits the same ARP packet over and over.  However, each ARP packet repeated by the AP has a new IV.  The collection of these IVs will later help us later in determining the WEP key.

<pre>aireplay-ng -3 -b 34:EF:44:BB:14:C1 -h 00:E0:4C:6D:27:8D wlan0</pre>

* -3 means standard arp request replay
* -b 34:EF:44:BB:14:C1 is the access point MAC address
* -h 00:E0:4C:6D:27:8D is the source MAC address (either an associated client or from fake authentication)
* wlan0 is the wireless interface name

'''Attack 4 - KoreK chopchop'''

The KoreK chopchop attack can decrypt a WEP data packet without knowing the key. It can even work against dynamic WEP.  ''This attack does not recover the WEP key itself, it merely reveals the plaintext''. Some APs are not vulnerable to this attack.  They may seem vulnerable at first but actually drop data packets shorter than 60 bytes.  If the AP drops packets shorter than 42 bytes, Aireplay tries to guess the rest of the missing data, as far as the headers are predictable.  If an IP packet is captured Aireplay checks if the checksum of the header is correct after guessing its missing parts.  Remember that this attack requires at least one WEP data packet.

<pre>aireplay-ng -4 -b 34:EF:44:BB:14:C1 -h 00:E0:4C:6D:27:8D wlan0</pre>

* -4 means the chopchop attack
* -b 34:EF:44:BB:14:C1 is the access point MAC address
* -h 00:E0:4C:6D:27:8D is the source MAC address (either an associated client or from fake authentication)
* wlan0 is the wireless interface name
'''Attack 5 - Fragmentation Attack'''

The fragmentation attack does not recover the WEP key itself, but (also) obtains the PRGA (pseudo random generation algorithm) of the packet.  The PRGA can then be used to generate packets with Packetforge-ng which are in turn are used for various injection attacks.  The attack requires at least one data packet to be received from the AP in order to initiate the attack.  Basically, the program obtains a small amount of keying material from the packet then attempts to send ARP and/or LLC packets with known content to the AP.  If the packet is successfully echoed back by the AP then a larger amount of keying information can be obtained from the returned packet.  This cycle is repeated several times until 1500 bytes of PRGA are obtained (sometimes less than 1500 bytes).

<pre>aireplay-ng -5 -b 34:EF:44:BB:14:C1 -h 00:E0:4C:6D:27:8D wlan0</pre>

* -5 means run the fragmentation attack
* -b 34:EF:44:BB:14:C1 is the access point MAC address
* -h 00:E0:4C:6D:27:8D is the source MAC address (either an associated client or from fake authentication)
* wlan0 is the wireless interface name

'''Attack 9: Injection test'''

The injection test determines if your card can successfully inject wireless packets, and measures ping response times to APs.  If you have two wireless cards connected, the test can also determine which specific injection attacks can be successfully executed.  The basic injection test lists the APs in the area which respond to broadcast probes, and for each it performs a 30 packet test which measures the connection quality.  This connection quality quantifies the ability of your card to successfully send and receive a response to the test target.  The percentage of responses received gives a good indication of the link quality.

<pre>aireplay-ng -9 wlan0</pre>

Where:

* -9 - Injection test.
* wlan0 - the interface name

[[:File:Penetration_Testing_Execution_161.png|Screenshot Here]]

'''Aircrack-ng'''

Aircrack-ng is an 802.11 WEP and WPA/WPA2-PSK key cracking program.  Aircrack-ng can recover the WEP key once enough encrypted packets have been captured with airodump-ng.  This part of the Aircrack-ng suite determines the WEP key using two fundamental methods.  The first method is via the PTW approach (Pyshkin, Tews, and Weinmann).  The default cracking method is PTW.

For cracking WPA/WPA2 pre-shared keys, only a dictionary method is used.  SSE2 support is included to dramatically speed up WPA/WPA2 key processing.  A "four-way handshake" is required as input.  For WPA handshakes, a full handshake is composed of four packets.  However, Aircrack-ng is able to work successfully with just 2 packets.  EAPOL packets (2 and 3) or packets (3 and 4) are considered a full handshake.

===Attacking the User===
The Rules of Engagment (ROE) should be validated to ensure this is in-scope before conducting any attacks against the users 

=====Karmetasploit Attacks=====
Karmetasploit is a modification of the KARMA to integrate it into Metasploit.  Karmetasploit creates a working "evil" access point working that provides network services to an unsuspecting user.  The services Karmetasploit provides include a DNS daemon that responds to all requests, a POP3 service, an IMAP4 service, a SMTP service, a FTP service, a couple of different SMB services, and a web service.  All DNS lookups result in the IP address of the access point being returned, resulting in a blackhole effect for all email, web, and other network traffic.

To run Karmetasploit, use aireplay-ng to verify that injection is functioning:

<pre># aireplay-ng --test [monitor-interface] </pre>

The output of aireplay-ng should indicate that injection is working and that one of the local access points could be reached. If every access point returns 0% and the message indicating injection is working is not there, you likely need to use a different/patched driver or a different wireless card.

The Metasploit Framework does not have a DHCP module, so a third-party DHCP service must be configured and installed. The easiest way to accomplish this is by installed the "dhcpd" package. On Backtrack 4 R2, the package is called "dhcpd3"or on Backtrack 5, the package is called "dhcp3-server".

<pre>apt-get install dhcp3-server </pre>

Once the DHCP server has been installed, an appropriate configuration file needs to be created. This file is normally called "dhcpd.conf" or "dhcpd3.conf" and resides in /etc, /etc/dhcp, or /etc/dhcp3. The example below uses the 10.0.0.0/24 network with the access point configured at 10.0.0.1.

<pre>default-lease-time 60;
max-lease-time 72;

ddns-update-style none;

authoritative;

log-facility local7;

subnet 10.0.0.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
  range 10.0.0.100 10.0.0.254;
  option routers 10.0.0.1;
  option domain-name-servers 10.0.0.1;
}
</pre>

To run Karmetasploit, there are three things that need to happen. First, airbase-ng must be started and configured as a greedy wireless access point. The following example will beacon the ESSID of the target company, respond to all probe requests, and rebroadcast all probes as beacons for 30 seconds:

<pre>airbase-ng -P -C 30 -e "<COMPANY ESSID>" -v [monitor-interface]</pre>

Second, we need to configure the IP address of the at0 interface to match. 

<pre>ifconfig at0 up 10.0.0.1 netmask 255.255.255.0</pre>

Third, the DHCP server needs to be started on the "at0" TUN/TAP interface created by airbase-ng:

<pre>dhcpd -cf /etc/dhcpd.conf at0</pre>

Finally, the Metasploit Framework itself needs to be configured. While its possible to configure each service by hand, its more efficient to use a resource file with the msfconsole interface. A sample resource file, configured to use 10.0.0.1 as the access point address, with nearly every feature enabled, can be downloaded here [http://digitaloffense.net/tools/karma.rc]. To use this resource file, run msfconsole with the -r parameter. Keep in mind that msfconsole must be run as root for the capture services to function.

<pre>msfconsole -r karma.rc</pre>

Once the Metasploit Framework processes the commands in the resource file, the standard msfconsole shell will be available for commands. As clients connect to the access point and try to access the network, the service modules will do what they can to extract information from the client and exploit browser vulnerabilities.

=====DNS Requests=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>

=====Bluetooth=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>
=====Personalized Rogue AP=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>

* DoS / Blackmail angle

=====Web=====
A web application involves a web server that accepts input and is most often interfaced using http(s). The penetration tester’s goal is to discover any interaction points that can be manipulated to access information, functionality or services beyond the web applications intended use.
Quite often a web application will comprise of tiers. The tiers are generally broken up into web, application, and data. These tiers can run on one or more servers, and any of the tiers may be load balanced across multiple servers. 
In the quest to find all the entry points, during the intelligence gathering and vulnerability analysis phase the penetration tester will utilize mostly GET and POST requests but should also test head, put, delete, trace, options, connect and patch. The objective is to map all input and output points. These are not limited to simply forms on a page, but include cookies, links, hidden forms, http parameters, etc.
During the exploration particular attention should be given to sessions, cookies, error pages, http status codes, indirectly accessible pages, encryption usage and server configuration, dns and proxy cache usage.
Ideally, this will be done using both automated and manual methods to discover potential ways to manipulate the web application parameters or logic. This is generally done using some form of client application (browser) and a proxy that can sit between the client application and the web application, and a tool to crawl (aka spider) through page links.

======SQL Injection (SQLi)======
According to OWASP (https://www.owasp.org/index.php/SQL_Injection) SQL Injection, or as it is more commonly known SQLi, consists of insertion or "injection" of a SQL query via the input data from the client to the application. A successful SQL injection exploit can read sensitive data from the database, modify database data (Insert/Update/Delete), execute administration operations on the database (such as shutdown the DBMS), recover the content of a given file present on the DBMS file system and in some cases issue commands to the operating system. SQL injection attacks are a type of injection attack, in which SQL commands are injected into data-plane input in order to effect the execution of predefined SQL commands. 

SQL (Structured Query Language) is an interpretted programming language for interfacing with a database. It is sometimes also lazily used to refer to the database management system. 
Applications utilize a database to store/retrieve and process information. The database is usually a relational database, where data is stored in one more tables, each table has values in one or more columns (data types/attributes) and rows (element/tuple).
There are several implementations of SQL and each has their own commands and syntax. A few common commands are:
select - retrieve data
union - combine results of two or more selects
insert - add new data
update - modify existing data
delete - delete data


What is injection?
Simply stated, SQL injection exploits a vulnerability that allows data sent to an application to be interpreted and run as SQL commands. 

According to OWASP (https://www.owasp.org/index.php/SQL_Injection) SQL Injection, also known as  SQLi, consists of insertion or "injection" of a SQL query via the input data from the client to the application. 

A successful SQL injection exploit can read sensitive data from the database, modify database data (Insert/Update/Delete), execute administration operations on the database (such as shutdown the DBMS), recover the content of a given file present on the DBMS file system and in some cases issue commands to the operating system. SQL injection attacks are a type of injection attack, in which SQL commands are injected into data-plane input in order to effect the execution of predefined SQL commands. 
SQL injection is typically discovered in the Vulnerability Analysis phase (and maybe hinted at in the intelligence gathering phase) of the engagement.

One possible way to test for sql injection is to enter a ' into input fields then compare the application response to a well formed request. If the web application is vulnerable to SQLi, a ' may return different results when the SQL statement attempts to execute. Was an error message returned, different results, web page a different size, are different HTTP codes returned. Don't forget to look at the source, not just what is displayed in the browser. 
Depending on the reaction, it may be necessary to use other tests for injection, for example " or '; or ) or '+"=' or %27%20or%201=1. It may also be necessary to encode the characters to bypass filters.
If the access to the source code of the application is available, review for any variables where input can be manipulated as part of the application usage. In some cases this will be readily apparent, for instance
php $sql = "SELECT * from [table] WHERE tuple = '$_GET("input"]'";	
c# $sql = "SELECT * from [table] WHERE tuple = '" + request.getParameter("input") = "'";

Several tools are available for the identification and exploitation of SQLi 

Several tools are available for the identification and exploitation of SQLi.
SQLi Tools
*Havij (http://itsecteam.com/en/projects/project1.htm)
*SQLmap (http://sqlmap.sourceforge.net)
*The Mole (http://sourceforge.net/projects/themole)
*Pangolin (http://nosec.org/en/productservice/pangolin)

======XSS======
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>

======CSRF======
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>

=====Ad-Hoc Networks=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span></span>

* Information Leakage

=====Detection bypass=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span></span>

* FW/WAF/IDS/IPS Evasion
* Human Evasion
* DLP Evasion
=====Resistance of Controls to attacks=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span></span>
=====Type of Attack=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span></span>

* Client Side
* Phishing (w/pretext)
* Service Side
* Out of band
* Post-Exploitation
* Infrastructure analysis

=====The Social-Engineer Toolkit=====
The Social-Engineering Toolkit (SET) is a python-driven suite of custom tools which solely focuses on attacking the human element of pentesting. It’s main purpose is to augment and simulate social-engineering attacks and allow the tester to effectively test how a targeted attack may succeed. Currently SET has two main methods of attack, one is utilizing Metasploit payloads and Java-based attacks by setting up a malicious website (which you can clone whatever one you want) that ultimately delivers your payload. The second method is through file-format bugs and e-mail phishing. The second method supports your own open-mail relay, a customized sendmail open-relay, or Gmail integration to deliver your payloads through e-mail. The goal of SET is to bring awareness to the often forgotten attack vector of social-engineering. You can see detailed [http://www.secmaniac.com/tutorials/ tutorials here] or by downloading the [http://svn.secmaniac.com/social_engineering_toolkit/readme/User_Manual.pdf user manual here].

===VPN detection===

VPN Hunter (http://www.vpnhunter.com) discovers and classifies SSL VPNs from top vendors including Juniper, Cisco, Palo Alto, Citrix, Fortinet, F5, SonicWALL, Barracuda, Microsoft, and Array. VPN Hunter will also attempt to detect whether two-factor authentication is enabled on the target SSL VPNs.

===Route detection, including static routes===
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>
=====Network Protocols in use=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>
=====Proxies in use=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>
* Network Level
* Application Level

=====Network layout=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>

* Mapping connectivity in/out of every segment
* Lateral connectivity

=====High value/profile targets=====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>

===Pillaging===
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>
====Video Cameras====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>
====Data Exfiltration====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span></span>

* identify web servers
* identify ftp servers
* DNS and ICMP tunnels
* VoIP channels
* Physical channels (printing, garbage disposal, courier)
* Fax (on multifunction printers)

====Locating Shares====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>

====Audio Capture====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>

* VoIP
* Microphone


====High Value Files====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>

====Database Enumeration====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span>

* Checking for PPI
* card data
* passwords/user accounts

====Wifi====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span></span>

* Steal wifi keys
* Add new Wifi entries with higher preference then setup AP to force<br>connection
* Check ESSIDs to identify places visited

====Source Code Repos====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span></span>

* SVN
* CVS
* MS Sourcesafe
* WebDAV

====Git====

Git is a distributed version control system (DVCS) and the meta directory (.git) contains all the necessary information to re-create the state of the repository at any given point in time. 

Git is often used to deploy web applications and the .git meta directory is sometimes available to pillage.


'''Identify the repo'''

One quick way to find the repo is to look for the file http://example.com/.git/HEAD and see if it contains a match to ^ref: refs/  W3AF (http://w3af.sourceforge.net/) contains a discovery plugin named findGit.py that will assist in finding git repositories of web targets.

Note: the .git directory is not always present in the root, but sometimes in sub directories depending on how a part of the application is deployed. Something like http://example.com/blog/.git/


'''Cloning the repo'''

<pre>git clone http://example.com/</pre>

If an error like this is the result of the clone attempt then you have to resort to pillaging in different ways as the repo is not easily cloneable.

<pre>fatal: http://example.com/info/refs not found: did you run git update-server-info on the server?</pre>


'''Check for directory browsing'''

If directory browsing is open for http://example.com/.git/objects then wget can be used to download the repo and then re-construct it.

Example:
<pre>
    wget -m —no-parent http://example.com/.git
    cd example.com
    git reset —hard
</pre>

'''Other useful data'''

If both of these scenarios fail to get you the contents of the git repo there is still other information that may be of value. These files with predictable file names can contain very useful information and are detailed below.

* .git/index
“The index is a binary file (generally kept in .git/index) containing a sorted list of path names, each with permissions and the SHA1 of a blob object; git ls-files can show you the contents of the index:” (http://book.git-scm.com/7_the_git_index.html)

# Platform details (.php, .cgi, etc)
# Files that may contain configuration details (that are not rendered)
# .old
# .new
# .bak
# .tar.gz
# .txt
# Database dumps .sql

<pre>
    mkdir example.com
    cd example.com
    mkdir .git
    wget get http://example.com/.git/index -O .git/index
    git init .
    git ls-files
</pre>

* .git/config
Contains repo locations, usernames / email addresses, possibly other targets one could attack.

* .git/logs/HEAD
Contains commit messages if any editing and committing has been done on the server.

* .git/hooks/*
There are a number of files in the hooks directory that may contain sensitive information depending on the environment.

====Identify custom apps====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span></span>

====Backups====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span></span>

* Locally stored backup files
* Central backup server
* Remote backup solutions
* Tape storage

===Business impact attacks===
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span></span>

*What makes the biz money
*Steal It

===Further penetration into infrastructure===
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span></span>

*Botnets

====Pivoting inside====
* Linux Commands
--Show users that have used ssh to connect to this host.
grep publickey /var/log/secure*|awk '{print $9"\t"$11"\t"$NF}'|sort -u

user1 ::ffff:10.0.0.1 ssh2
user2 ::ffff:10.0.0.2 ssh2
user3 ::ffff:10.0.0.3 ssh2


--Show users that have used sudo.
grep sudo /var/log/secure*|awk -F: '{print $4}'|sort -u

user1
root
user2
user4


--Show users with active cron use.
cat /var/log/cron* |awk '$6 !~ /Updated/ {print $6}'|tr -d \(\)|sort -u

root
user5
user1
user2


--Look at a users password settings.
passwd -S user

# passwd -S appuser
Password locked.
# passwd -S root
Password set, MD5 crypt.
#  passwd -S bin
Alternate authentication scheme in use.


--Users that have connected and from where.
for i in $(ls /var/log/wtmp*);do last -adf ${i}|awk '$1 !~ /wtmp/
{print $1,$NF}'|sort -u; done

user1 testhost.example.com
root testhost2.example.com
user2 prodhost.example.com


--Who is logged in right now and from where.
$ who -Hu
NAME     LINE         TIME         IDLE          PID COMMENT
user1   pts/0        Jun 2 10:39   .         28001 (testhost.example.com)


--Pull IPv4 hosts from /etc/hosts, drop commented entries and localhost.
egrep -v "^[ \t]*#|^[ \t]*$|localhost" /etc/hosts
10.0.0.1  testhost.example.com testhost
10.0.0.2  testhost2.example.com testhost2
10.0.0.3  testhost3.example.com testhost3


--Pull commented IPv4 hosts from /etc/hosts
egrep "^[ \t]*#+[ \t]*([0-9]{1,3}\.){3}[0-9]{1,3}" /etc/hosts
#10.0.0.4  testhost4.example.com testhost4


--Pull IPv6 hosts from /etc/hosts
egrep "(([:xdigit:]{0,4})\:?\:{1}){0,7}\:?\:{1}([:xdigit:]{0,4})?" /etc/hosts
::1                     loopback localhost      # loopback (lo0) name/address
::1FFF		 ipv6test.example.com ipv6test


--Pull hostnames from known_hosts files for any user home you have
access to read.
for i in $(awk -F: '{print $6}' /etc/passwd|sort -u); do awk '{print
$1}' ${i}/.ssh/known_hosts 2> /dev/null;done|tr ',' '\n'|sort -u
testhost
testhost3
testhost4
ipv6test
prodhost


--Show private keys and if they are encrypted
for i in $(grep "PRIVATE" *|egrep -v "END"|awk -F: '{print $1}'); do
print ${i};grep ENCRYPTED ${i};echo;done
id_dsa

id_dsap
Proc-Type: 4,ENCRYPTED

id_rsa32k
Proc-Type: 4,ENCRYPTED

id_rsa512

id_rsa512p
Proc-Type: 4,ENCRYPTED


--Look at the public keys and pull their type.  Numerical types are
SSH protocol 1.
for i in $(ls *.pub);do print ${i};awk '{print $1}' ${i};echo;done
id_dsa.pub
ssh-dss

id_dsap.pub
ssh-dss

id_rsa16k.pub
ssh-rsa

id_rsadef.pub
ssh-rsa

identity2048.pub
2048

identity768p.pub
768

identity864.pub
864

* Windows Commands
* Token Stealing and Reuse
* Password Cracking
* Wifi connections to other devices
* Password Reuse
* Keyloggers
* User enumeration
* From Windows DC or from individual machines
* Linux passwd file
* MSSQL Windows Auth users

=====History/Logs=====

Linux
{|
| align="left"|<code>date</code> 
|Display date and time
|-
|<code>df </code>
|Display disk free space 
|-
|<code>iostat </code>
|Kernel I/O statistics
|-
|<code>netstat</code>
|Network status and throughput
|-
|<code>lsof</code>
|List of open files
|-
|<code>ps</code>
|Process information
|-
|<code>top</code>
|Display and update sorted process information
|-
|<code>who</code>
|Display who is on the system <br>
Check ssh known hosts file<br>
Log files to see who connects to the server
|-
|}

.bash_history and other shell history files
syslog


MySQL
* MySQL History
* syslog

Windows
* Event Logs
* Recent opened files
* Browsers
* Favorites
* stored passwords
* stored cookies
* browsing history
* browser cache files
* syslog

====Cleanup====
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span></span>

*Ensure documented steps of exploitation
*Ensure proper cleanup
*Remove Test Data
*Leave no trace
*Proper archiving and encryption of evidence to be handed back to customer
*Restore database from backup where necessary

===Persistence===
<span style="background-color:yellow;"><span style="background-color:yellow;"><nowiki><</nowiki>Contribution Needed<nowiki>></nowiki></span></span>

1. Autostart Malware

2. Reverse Connections

3. Rootkits

* User Mode
* Kernel Based

4. C&C medium (http, dns, tcp, icmp)

5. Backdoors

6. Implants

7. VPN with credentials
